---
title: 4 Years at UT
layout: post
hide: true
permalink: utaustin
---

# Applying to UT

11th and 12th grade were incredibly stressful years for me at school. Basically, my entire friend group had left DPS, causing a new bout of loneliness to take root. In addition to this, I also started IIT coaching prep with studying for the SAT tests. One of my greatest disappointments was receiving 1780 on the SAT and just breaking down since I just didn't know of a solid way to improve. I've always been one of the most prolific readers amongst the people I know and burn through books at a ridiculous rate. My consistent habit of making silly mistakes affected even my math scores, something I'm good at but made mistakes during such standardized tests.

To improve this I started taking SAT coaching classes in MG road, which turned out to not help my score out at all. My respite in standardized tests came in the form of the subject tests where I managed to get 800's in Math, Physics, and Chemistry. The next SAT's I just didn't see the form of improvement I was expecting and ended up with a score of 1980, unable to cross the elusive 2000 barrier. In my 20/20 hindsight, I would've taken the more science and math-based ACT over the more comprehension and grammar based SAT. 

The main area where this affected my confidence was in college applications. While I consider myself in the top percentile of readers, I consider myself an extremely poor writer. In fact, this blog is a poor man's attempt to correct this block. Anyhow, this meant I didn't have an easy time writing the ginormous amounts of essay prompts all the US colleges require you to submit. I had to do this whilst balancing the IIT classes from 7-9:30 every day and the start of the pre-board exams in school. With my SAT scores and lack of confidence in my writing ability, I didn't even try to aim for the top schools, something I regret. 

Even for UT's application, we ended up missing the Turing scholar's application by an hour trying to fix the essays. This one fact caused me so much self-esteem issues up till the point I got my Google offer. Looking back, I'm extremely glad that I didn't get in as it allowed me to be amongst the best in my classes instead of languishing in the bottom. As a firm believer in healthy competition but not to the point where it's harmful, I'm really glad I was able to be friends with so many overachieving people without my grades suffering especially in my cs classes.

I remember vividly my reaction to getting into UT Austin in Feb of 2014. I was in my room and my dad came into the room and told me the news. I was just like cool and thought naively that I'd get into something better. Even though Solanki Uncle and Appa told me so many times that the school was really good, I had so much pushback when applying for the school. So when I actually got in, it didn't seem like a huge accomplishment. 4 years later, I can 100% confirm I was an idiot. I never ended up getting anything better than UT, and in fact, constantly compared myself to my cousin who had gotten into much 'better' schools like CMU and Princeton.

Going to the US for my undergrad education was never a guarantee as my parents kept telling me they didn't know if they could fund my education there. As the backup option, we took admission into NIT Surathkal thanks to the good SAT subject test scores that I'd gotten and the Aus citizenship. Thus, I dutifully tried my hardest in the IIT coaching classes and board exams, though I had basically given up on getting into the IIT's by then. A large part of my life has been defined by me believing that I wasn't good enough for things that were actually very much in my control to achieve and the comparisons that I'd put myself through relative to other people.

---

# Visiting NIT 

After all the Indian entrance exams finished, it was clear that the options that I had for CS were either UT or NIT Surathkal. We couldn't afford a trip to the US to check out the college and thus combined a trip to visit Surathkal with a trip to visit my grandparents.

Surathkal simply put was disappointing except for the beach. The dorms and the computer lab made my decision for me. That impulse decision that I took in the midst of the computer lab was single-handedly one of the best decisions that I've taken in my lifetime. I'll never forget the dorms with the cyan-ish closet and the army like bed frames that were present in the dorm rooms. Though, I must say the beach was really nice and the cafeteria food was sooooo much cheaper than any meal that I've had since in the US. Rs. 10 puri bhaji? Sign me up immediately.

---

# Year One 

## Orientation and the Flight Going

To go to UT, Appa was accompanying me and Shiva Chitappa was coming over to help us out with the move. Our route was from Pune to Frankfurt with a stop in Beirut (I think?) and then to Houston from where we'd drive down to Austin. I actually don't remember the moment saying goodbye to Amma, but I remember I wasn't emotional at all. The times that struck me the most was when I had come to India and then left as well as the time after Tara's wedding in Gansevoort hotel bawling my eyes out. The Lufthansa flight was one of the more uncomfortable flights I've taken and made me ensure that I wouldn't put myself through this hassle for a long time. Babies crying, bulkhead seats and a lack of legroom are a recipe for disaster. The second leg was a United flight where they had overbooked the flight and hadn't even issued our boarding passes, though our urgency to reach orientation and someone stepping up to stay in Frankfurt meant we could reach Houston luckily.

We met up with Chitappa after a long wait in the Houston airport and started the long drive to Austin. On the way, we got my first of many Subway's in Texas, before arriving at a Super 8 near campus. I think it was at that point that I finally comprehended what was happening with the drastic moves in my life without Amma and my friend circle. The sheer silence in the room didn't help one bit.

The first area of UT that I vividly remember is the roundabout opposite the stadium near the CLA. I honestly don't remember much of those first orientation days. I remember meeting Guneet randomly in UFCU at some point and getting tours of the GDC and having some sessions in the UTC. 

To get access to my rooms in the dorms, I had to go walk all the way for my first and last time to the baseball stadium across Red River St. to get access to a key. Ryan Kelly, my roommate, had already moved in at the time and managed to snag the best spots in the room. The Jester West dorm rooms were definitely a lot better than I expected with a sliding closet, a desk, and an extendable bed. The room didn't have a lot of lighting and I ended up not spending that much time in the room in the upcoming year. That first night was one of the more brutal ones without Appa and Amma. Without a fan, the sound of the refrigerator right by my head put me to sleep.

Gone to Texas was the main orientation event where they lit the tower blue initially before turning it to orange for the incoming class of 2018. I listened to the Eyes of Texas Song for the first time but was actually impressed by the overall presentation and the fireworks there hence. 

Registration for courses was it's own nightmare as the lack of available options for freshman meant that I was stressing out on what I could register for before I even had the chance. I remember using the plastic Macbook for the last time in its 8 year life period to plan out all my potential options in the hotel room. Funny how I did that 3 years later during my Palantir onsite hotel as well.

Since my laptop was dysfunctional, Periamma was kind enough to order a MacBook and send it to the dorms with my bedding. Unfortunately, the specifications were incorrect so we went to Barton Creek Mall's Apple Store to get it replaced.
I remember setting all of this up in JCL. 4 years later I'm writing this on the same banged up laptop with a broken command key and a questionable screen, though I love the hell out of this device.

In addition to the running around for registration, we also had to take a super easy test in math and English that basically allowed me to take advanced calculus. I also had registered for the CLEP test for calculus that would allow me to skip M 408C. If only I had managed to skip M 408D by taking the AP tests! 

---

# Freshman Year - Fall Semester

I ended up registering for CS 312 with Mike Scott, M 408D with Gustavo Cepparo, E 303K with the dreaded Hickenbottom, and UGS 303 Visual Essay. My first semester definitely ended up being one of the lightest ones in my 4 years of college, though that was somewhat intentional. 
312 tended to be quite easy, though I did need some help on the projects from Juan and Veronica, especially with my weird bugs that kept arising. I became unknowingly dependent on the auto-complete features of Eclipse and would make silly mistakes because I'd rely on that instead of using my own head to code and type. I was also so slow relative to my current speed after transitioning to vim and plugins without relying on auto-complete. 

M408D was a complete joke 4/5th of the semester. As an 8am class, I thought I could easily wake up for it after waking up at 5:25 am every day for school. I have never been so wrong in my life. Basically, after the first few classes, I would perpetually keep my head down and try to sleep on the second row in class. Met Saloni in a random discussion section room when she started talking to me lol. Met some other random friends who I never spoke with hence like Sam and M...

Hickenbottom's course was an absolute disaster for me. In addition to not liking economics, his clicker questions being graded continuously as well as his tests meant that I just didn't do well in the course. I met Aditya, Eshaan, and their group of friends. 

Visual Essay was somewhat interesting because, as the title suggests, we had to create visual stories without words. I just didn't put enough time/energy into the class to make an A, but I'm happy with the A- that I got.

---

In terms of my friend group, I used to hang out with a bunch of Asians. This included Anthony Nguyen, Brian Nguyen, John Tran, Tavian Floyd, Peter Maudlin, and Alex Gonzales. How did I end up meeting this group? I have no clue, but I think we all met up because we all stayed basically in Jester West and loved Smash (Wii U version). We all used to get food in J2 all the time where I'd get the terrible vegetable pizzas every day.

J2 brings back unpleasant memories. Initially looking at it with Appa and Chitappa, it looked pretty good because of the size of the place and all the supposed options it had. Only after having it daily did I realize how poor the options were, especially since the menus would not change week to week. The options being the same was a major disappointment. The hot customized table made life really good with the stir fry and the pasta. While others complained about "egg lady", I had more severe issues where I was beginning to get sick of having pizzas. My options outside of J2 were also limited as I was still running of my parent's money, which I just didn't feel comfortable spending on outside food at the time. I can't believe that I used to look forward to once a week of Chipotle outside the dorms. Fast-forward 2-3 years and I was basically having food on the Drag at least once a day instead of once a week. I guess that's the price internship money does to you. However, I was in a much better position mentally due to the improvement in my food options.

---

The career fair was a depressing affair freshman year. Pretty much in the first two weeks, there were talks on creating your own website using virtual env, pip, and GitHub. All of these were things I had no clue about at the time and just had to learn on the time whilst getting acclimatized to college. I remember the first few pod class where we went through this and I had so many issues getting everything set up and seeing the seniors just so much superior. Instead of actually trying to improve the content on the resume, I spent time designing an elaborate orange-grey design that was made completely useless a few years down the road. I spent so much money that first semester on printing out the resume's as I decided printing them on fancy paper, printing in color, and cutting them perfectly would somehow land me an internship over the actual content on my resume. Stupidest move ever!

Seeing the Turing's doing much better projects and not even being able to try their projects absolutely destroyed my self-confidence. Going and talking to Lin was such a stupid move haha. Guneet's ability to get interviews and just hearing about others landing them or even companies just giving them the time of day didn't help at all. Though, I came out with the most amount of swag in my freshman year than I did in the rest of my career fair runs. No interviews, however. Then Appa started pestering me to start applying to companies online. After a lot of resistance, I eventually resigned myself to the fact that the first semester was just not successful on the internship side. I think in late November/December I started applying really seriously and decided that the nightmare of not getting a single interview wouldn't happen again. Honestly, not getting into Turing was one of the best things to happen to me as I regained my confidence and improved while being able to retain my grades without the baggage of needing to do a thesis.

Some other highlights were:
1. Periamma's trip during the family weekend to Austin.
2. Going to the Bay Area for Thanksgiving and spending time with everyone then.
3. Probably having the longest hair that I've ever had in my life because I was too cheap to go get a haircut in the US for 16-20 dollars.

---

### Winter Break

#### Flights back to India 

I think pretty much every time I had to fly back to India during the 4 years I messed up on tickets in some way. Whether it was booking them too late and paying much more than they're worth, or booking way too many connections, or trying to get it through Pune. Every time it was different and somehow annoying. The first time, I had the vague hope of meeting Tanish (that never happened hahaha) and tortured myself to a 12 hour layover in Heathrow airport. Admittedly, Heathrow T5 did end up becoming one of my favorite airports due to its multiple shops, multiple seating areas with charging, nice views, and quick but annoying security.

Anyway, the first time in Heathrow I stumbled upon the gem of Red Rising that has since become one of my all time favorite book series'. That story of how I finished 2 books in 12 hours and desperately looking for another one will have to wait for another blog post.

We started trekking as a family this break much to our collective happiness. The first one to Rajmachi Fort was truly amazing. I think we walked some ridiculous amount like 15 km that day as we had parked so far away from our car.

Once I decided to be productive instead of spending time on YouTube, I decided to start Web development as it seemed like the simplest strategy to learn full-stack development and sell myself on knowing that. Oh, how wrong I was. I learned HTML, CSS, Javascript, and JQuery all to build a website that wouldn't even last 8 months. I shamelessly pulled from a template, but it ended up quite bad as I just can't do front-end development. This is something that I'd only realize 2 years down the road after I got my Google internship. I honestly didn't do enough to improve myself during this break, but I think I made up in the next semester and especially in the summer.

That break we ended up taking one of the best trips ever to Amritsar and Chandigarh to have some of the best food and Lassi's I've ever had.


### Spring Semester


I was taking the following courses in my Spring Semester of Freshman Year:

**Data Structures**: DS taught by Mike Scott was truly critical to my success to become better as an engineer. I think during this course I truly understood how recursion worked. I think the projects could have been a bit harder especially for the binary search tree and linked list projects that ended up being quite trivial. The class allowed pair projects where I started up my awesome friendship with CK and Rohit. Honestly, kind of pushed my way into getting partnered with Rohit for the recursion one, but since I held more than my weight we managed to pull that friendship through the four years of college. Huffman Encoding with Gilbert was an experience where I just did so much of the work and he was a) busy b) I didn't feel like he pulled enough of his weight and just pulled through. The graph project I just didn't get at the time, and left Data Structures really confused about how graphs worked properly especially Dijkstra's algorithm.

**Linear Algebra**: M340L with Gilbert, the old British guy, was amazing. His notes on Quest were pieces of art that made paying attention in his good lectures quite pointless. Though, the Quest questions themselves were done only by spending a lot of time in the GDC and truly understanding the questions. It was awesome meeting Rohit, Ali, Sumanth, Channing and Guneet (properly) due to the course. I remember the times studying for the test and creating the cheat sheets with them in the GDC before the test.

**Probability**: Choosing early morning classes throughout my first year and even later was such a poor decision. Probability had these weekly quizzes that literally brought my grade down to an A-. In addition, I cared so little about the constant homework that I'd try to do them in the easiest way possible instead of trying the learn the maximum. I should've paid more attention in the class, but SDS325H made up for it in all honesty. I did meet Sam Barani, but that was just like a single time studying with him properly.

**Discrete Math**: One of the most useless classes that I took that was taught by Vladimir Lifschitz. The TA (Keenan) was decent, but I ended up never going to his sessions and finishing the homework really easily. However, I remember doing poorly on some test in the class and ended up having to care in the end. Extremely stupid decision to not just care as I could've skipped the final if I had an A in the class.

**Game design**: The first amongst the random electives that I took in college. Taught by Paul Toprac, it had an interesting system where each student would present a presentation on a particle article relating to game design. It was relatively interesting when I gave a shit, but I quickly lost interest due to how dense and seemingly pointless the articles seemed. The amount I seemed to know what I was talking about when I hadn't even read the article was ridiculous. The second half of the semester was much more interesting and questionable where we grouped up and worked to create a board game together. We ended up creating a Mario Kart board game that ended up being fairly balanced barring some random issues with Amish and Rachel. 

---

In the spring semester, I attended a game hackathon with some of the Asian Group and created a puzzle game by pulling an all-nighter and not even submitting the game eventually. Our idea was just so bad relative to the project. "What have you got next" was such a bad name for a game and our concept was just really poor for the game.

I definitely spent less time on the career fair in the spring semester than I did in the fall. I barely got any responses, but somehow managed to get an interview with Sears that went really poorly in all honesty. I think they just hired me on the basis that I went to UT Austin rather than any other company. Like every time I'd just end up answering that I didn't finish data structures yet. The interview was really bad as well as all he asked was questions from cracking the coding interview instead of actually good questions. He also asked a logic question that was ridiculous. I definitely managed to bullshit my way through that by saying that he didn't give me a particular fact that I really should have clarified.

I interviewed with another local Austin company that seemed to have gone well but I didn't get the role. Also, I just can't find that email in my email which is really weird.

uMAD (University of Mobile App Development) was when I think I really started to question what I was doing outside of classes. I didn't really do many activities outside of classes and hanging out with friends, that funnily lasted all 4 years of college. uMAD became the way I met properly with Rohit funnily enough in the food line according to them later. I was taking the Android and the Web Development classes with them, but honestly, I didn't learn much and it just wasn't for me. It was just a way for me to try and get internships in whatever way possible instead of doing something that I was passionate about.

I don't remember the first time I actually went to Torchy's Tacos, my eventual favorite restaurant at UT. I think I went with John, Anthony, and folks and we got our orders to-go. Once I discovered that the chips were unlimited and tried the queso, it was love at first taste. Since then, I've dragged too many people to Torchy's to have the chips and queso as well as the GDC basement. Funnily, no one has tried to murder me over the times spent at these places.

The end of the semester turned out to be pretty brutal. 4 exams over a Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and a Saturday meant that my schedule was already pretty brutal. Luckily my last test was Discrete Math, that was a joke. However, I was moving to Chicago on Tuesday and had to pack up my whole dorm room on Monday and in fact, start work on Wednesday. It was really exhausting and tiring to pack and move all the stuff on that Monday after the test. I stayed the night over at Vikram's place and left my box there whilst I carried myself and two suitcases to Chicago. 


--- 

# Sears Internship 

I made the terrible mistake of booking tickets on Frontier, a cheap budget airline that charged for hand-baggage and every piece of check-in baggage. My total ended up being just as expensive as something more expensive like American Airlines.

Prior to this, I had a lot of difficulties figuring out housing and transport to the office as it was literally in the middle of nowhere. Hoffman Estates basically has no public transportation and the company didn't provide anything. I ended up staying at the Sonesta hotel, an extended stay hotel, with a roommate called Apoorv. We had this weird policy of changing who would sleep in the bedroom every two weeks whilst the other would sleep on the sofa-bed. This was truly horrible for the rent that I ended up paying each day (\$68).

The initial few days in Chicago were extremely depressing. I didn't really have good friends nearby, there wasn't a way for me to get around easily, and my room was just inconvenient and quite sad. This was exasperated since my team didn't provide any concrete work my first two weeks. I ended up just staring at random code bases until the other interns showed up two weeks later. The hotel provided a shuttle to go to work with an awesome older Asian man who was super kind. However, the shuttle was kind of restrictive and I ended up driving with Aming a lot of the time. But, since my work was so trivial I ended up coming back quite early most days and constantly looked for ways to come back early. This came to bite me in the back at Google later on. I don't think I can manage something like that at Facebook anymore, especially since they provide free dinners that are a really good excuse to stay later at work.

The one beneficial factor was the money. I finally started earning, and though most of my earnings went in rent and expenses, I was able to purchase really nice headphones. This was the first time that I started listening to music extensively. I got onto that Apple Music free 3-month trial and started listening to of all things Taylor Swift, Piano Guys, Bastille and lastly Imagine Dragons. There was a park that I would walk or run to with an artificial lake with a bench facing west that I'd sit during the sunset listening to music at. Another saving grace was that a big mall (White ... Mall) was a mile away that gave me some opportunities to do some exploring. Romano's Macaroni Grill was on the way to work, that meant on paycheck Friday's I'd go and treat myself to a meal sometime. 

In terms of the actual work I did, I created 2 tools. One was a tool for the business people to provide a UI for a MySQL database with some join features that I can't remember exactly. All I remember about it is that the requirements changed a decent amount and that it took far too long for me to do than I expected. I'm sure I could've done it far quicker now than back then, but that holds true for most things I believe. My next task was working with Huzefa and Anirudh to create a Job Server stats manager that would provide a place where the engineers would be able to look at the job health of the servers that the Search team used. Honestly, this was a really useful experience since I was working with two Master's students who seemed to know what they were doing. I learned Python, Spring, and a bit of Cassandra and managed to contribute reasonably well.

What did I do after work? I read the massive series Wheel of Time for a full month sometimes even at work for hours on end. I started working on some ios development with some chrome extensions and a new website eventually. Looking back, I didn't do that much, but I think I learned a lot about what I was interested in and what I wasn't. This summer was when I pretty much figured out that I never wanted to work on front-end or mobile development.

---

After my internship and receiving the offer, I headed over to India where the school gang surprised me with an amazing surprise and Mapro's thanks to Appa and Amma. We continued to go hiking more, but the monsoon's prevented most of it. A major reason for my issues that whole summer was the sheer amount of cloudy weather that I'd seen in Chicago, Pune, and Austin when I came back for my sophomore year.

# Sophomore Year 

## Fall Semester

The fall semester for me started with moving into Whitis Ct. to find Guneet already moved in. I think I decided at that point that I'd try to move in first every time after that haha. It turned out to be really effective in 21 Rio with Sid but seems to have worked out fine with Zihao.

That semester I was taking:
**Computer Architecture**: I honestly didn't like CS429 taught by Bill Young. The class felt useless and unproductive since we didn't learn the tools necessary to succeed in classes like OS. It also didn't challenge us enough with the lack of tougher assignments after the bit challenge. The bit assignment was definitely the hardest assignment since most of us didn't even finish the float portions of the assignment. I ended up spending so much time on the assignment even though I ended up giving up on it. All this was done whilst dealing with the burden of the career fair and technical interviews. One of the truly useless programs ever was the program that we wrote in C for a calculator that just outputted assembly instructions. Still blows my mind that multiple classes had that assignment given to them. I truly have no clue how Bill Young still teaches architecture instead of someone more competent. I think the only useful thing that I learned in the class was how cache missing worked. Not a single other assignment provided any use.

**GOV 310L**: I honestly don't remember that much from the first government. I remember the quizzes that happened where I'd try and get out as much as possible by using Ctrl+F on all my notes. I was way too dedicated during this class by taking notes throughout the time. I really considered going for the Run for Water for Burundi, but I never managed to do it. I got decently close with Sumanth and Channing because of this, as we were all in the class together. 

**Competitive Programming**: Competitive was honestly one of the most useful classes that I took in terms of landing me a job. I don't think I would have managed to get as many offers as I had if I hadn't gone through this course Sophomore year. Particularly, Arnav and Jaime explained Dynamic Programming (DP) really well. The one thing that wasn't great about the course was how hard the quizzes were at the start of class. Rohit and I ended up getting so many of them wrong, which made him drop the course even though he was going to get an A with all the extra credit. I did kind of cheat the system by using codeforces previous solutions to try and cheat the system. The class also forced me to start attending the programming competitions. I didn't really do that well, as in never placing in the top, but it was a really useful experience. The extra credit that you got from solving the questions really helped. I still used Java at this point instead of python, but I still started to get quicker because of it. I was still using IntelliJ which was so slow relative to vim and sublime. I can't remember when exactly I switched to using vim full time, but I think I switched during google summer properly.

**ACC 310F**: I remember wanting to try and do the Business Foundations Program (BFP) freshman year. This class was constantly full the first year. I started off with this one in sophomore and instantly regretted even trying attending it. The class I registered for was at 8am, that turned out to be a terrible idea. After that, the content was really poor with nothing being really challenging. Due to this, I just didn't try at all. I ended up doing so poorly on the quizzes that dropped my grade down to an A-, because of how little I cared about the class. Overall, not the smartest decision. But, it definitely affirmed my belief of not taking business courses and focusing my energy in math and CS courses.

**Differential Equations**: M427K with Heitmann was another class where I eventually just stopped going. Heitmann was the professor that looked like Einstein and had some of the best stories that a professor has used as anecdotes. The class was divided into thirds, but since I'd already covered the first third in high school, it didn't make that much sense to pay attention and try hard. Sumanth, Bailey, Channing, CK, and I all took the course and none of us except poor Bailey did the assignments. Then, on the day before the test, we tried to do all the questions for all three exams. Luckily, I managed to score just enough to skip the final, but Bailey got completely screwed and had to take the final though he did the most work by far. 

---

### Career Fair

The sophomore year career fair was a really important one for me. I had spent the whole summer and the build-up to the career fair focussing on making sure that I had the best possible resume and selling points. I particularly focussed on the work at Sears and oversold myself as being the sole developer on the work. I made that pretty bad green website using Material UI elements and ended up really hating all the work I put into creating it. 

However, I went into that career fair thinking that I wouldn't get any interviews instead of preparing for getting interviews. This really came to bite me when I went to the CS special career fair in the stadium and talked to a bunch of companies. Bloomberg seemed to like me and actually contacted me in the afternoon to try and interview me. I also got a call from Rackspace that night that I tried just putting off as they tried to get me to interview that week again. They never called me so overall a not-so-smart decision. 

Bloomberg scheduled their interview for Friday with me, and the career fair was a Tuesday. This was honestly worst case scenario. A good company had scheduled an interview literally in 3 days at the earliest time giving me the least amount of time to prepare. The night of the career fair I spent some time with Guneet, Channing, and Sumanth to try and do some problems in CTCI. They solved the rainwater problem while I just stared on in despair not having a clue about how to solve the problem. That day was actually pretty depressing as it just reaffirmed my belief at the time that Turing's were superior and I had a huge gap to surpass. My only option was to pull out Cracking the Coding Interview and just read it and the solutions multiple times over till Friday. Obviously, not a terribly smart decision as I ended up bombing my first proper technical interview. The question to join the nodes in the same level to the right wasn't that hard looking back but with two interviewers and being under a lot of pressure I just choked pretty hard. 

I think the companies I interviewed with before Google were Microsoft, Bloomberg, and Broadway Technologies. I thought Microsoft went well, but I never heard back about an on-site interview that semester. Broadway Technologies went really poorly as I still didn't really know what I was doing. I think they asked me a question on how to get the top k elements from a stream of data entries. I never realized at the time that I should use a two-way heap to determine this. I got the heap ideas later while doing Leetcode questions. I got my Yelp interview and I did ask Sam Barani for some advice about them. But, I think he's gone on to do some incredible work and it was kind of outside my capabilities. 

## Google Interview
The lead up to the Google interview was quite bad. I really wanted to get the internship as some of the others had already got some good interviews while I hadn't cleared a single round up till that point. While that didn't change after the interview, it really made me quite nervous especially on the day of the interview. I ended up vomiting my breakfast in Kinsolving. At that point, in the lowest of my lows, I decided that I might as well just go in with everything that I had as nothing worse could happen. I remember wearing a yellow and blue striped shirt (the sleeves are kind of short) on the day of the interview. Luckily, my first interviewer was amazing and calmed me down by stating that he wasn't worried about me making mistakes and would take a comprehensive view of everything. I think it went fairly well, though I don't have any recollection about the question except that it was something bit related (but not really?). The next interview was quite the opposite as it involved the Indian interviewer just asking the question and just being silent the entire time. It was a DP question that asked the number of paths in a rectangle if the size of the rectangle was m,n. I initially messed up the DP, but I think I managed to impress him by the fact that I did manage to get the DP solution, with some help.

I honestly went out of that interview with mixed feelings, thinking that the first interview went well but not doing that well on the second. I really wasn't expecting to hear back with good news as it was freaking Google that I had just interviewed with. Meanwhile, Channing heard back within a week that he had a 3rd interview while I think Sumanth had heard back with the offer and Eric didn't get it. I remember having that conversation with Channing near the FAC at night and heading to my dorm anticipating that I wouldn't get it. I think close to the next day while in my CS429 class not expecting anything and bored out of my mind, I checked my email to find the offer. I was completely in shock as it was so unexpected. With Rohit and CK beside me, I was just stunned. After that class, I basically stopped caring and just rode the ecstasy feeling for the next two weeks. The first thing I did was to call Padma Periamma to let her know about the news before doing anything else. I remember that call in the back of Whitis where I was just in the shock while she told me that I deserved it. I think those two weeks were truly some of the best moments. Those times are sadly tinged with sadness because of the events a year from then, but I'll save that for another time.

---

After the Google Interview, I remember being extremely bored with school. That semester I had so much time to kill and ended up wasting a decent amount of it. I promised myself that semester that I would never take a light semester like that as I was just so bored out of my mind. I barely did anything other than YouTube and the basic necessities to continue school. I believe this was also the point that I first bought a Kindle. The first set of books that I started reading were Terry Pratchett's Discworld before I quickly switched to rereading some of the best series' of my childhood.

Apparently, I went to Padma Periamma's place that Thanksgiving and spent time with Avinash, Madhav, and Vittal.

house hunting
It was fairly clear to me that I wanted to stay in the dorms during sophomore year as well after seeing some of the difficulties people went through during OS. Being close to the GDC really helped out with operating systems later on. Anyway, Guneet and I had decided fairly early on that we would room together again in an apartment. It seemed like living in a room by yourself was outside my budget, so we pretty much went with the assumption that we would room together and tried to find others to join in an apartment with us. Eric joined in initially with Sid, but when we tried to find a 3 bedroom place, they were pretty much all out. Darshan then came into the mix after hating the experience with Rishi.

After spending a lot of time looking for places, we ended up at our starting point by going with 21 Rio in a 2 bedroom 2 bathroom apartment. We had some difficulties in agreeing who would take the room without the window, but the argument that Sid and I used was that if they cared so much about the window and stuff they should've made their preferences more clear at the start. Sid and I decided to room after we figured out our sleeping schedules aligned a bit better. Overall, I think I got the short end of the stick as Sid ended up being a poor roommate, DB and Guneet had a lot of fun in their room, and our blinds were terrible and thus let so much light into the room.

---

## Winter Break

That winter break we went to Orissa where the best thing happening was probably me discovering and finishing the Dresden Files. After coming back, I started the journey to start Computer Vision by completing Andrew Ng's ML course, though it honestly wasn't as useful as I expected.

Gomathi Patti had her surgery soon after I left back for the US. Sadly, the last time that I got to see her walking properly and truly happy. Every single time after that, I sadly only saw how weak and depleted she looked relative to her usual bubbly and talkative personality.

---

## Spring Semester 

The sophomore year spring semester I took
### Operating Systems 
Operating Systems was one of the hardest yet most satisfying classes that I took at UT. It started off fairly slow with P0 fairly standard. Rohit, CK, Ali, and I had decided the splits to be Ali and me for the first 2 projects before we would come together. This ended up being a disaster for CK and I as we had to do the majority of the tasks and projects by ourselves. P0 was fairly straightforward, but I think the signs of the disaster had started then. Ali would try and drive but would take a long amount of time for stuff that seemed trivial or take a long time to implement an algorithm that wouldn't take me that long to do. 

The true difficulties started in P1 where we just took a really long time understanding the codebase. The list implementation in OS really played havoc with us to get to the correct ramp up. Combined with the lack of understanding of C and threads, it ended up taking us so long to finish part 1. Part 2 was relatively simple with us just having to implement the locks and the last of the trio of locks. The priority donation portion, however, was truly the hardest roadblock I've faced during coding. Running around with 4 different algorithms in your head is really not the best.

Ali really came through in those last couple of days with an algorithm that seemed really jank, but it worked after a lot of debugging efforts. That project really made me a lot better at using git and switching around different projects. I regret the way I behaved with him a lot. I don't think I understood that it was wrong to judge people on their speed relative to me completing a task, especially as they were able to successfully bail me out that time. CK also had a hell of a time as they just finished the day the project was due after CK just came to the GDC and ended up coding the solution up. Honestly, that was one of the most impressive pieces of code that I've seen the kid write. It was really impressive the way he came clutch, while Rohit didn't do as much before. Rohit really kind of choked during OS, but I think that's because he started taking a lot more of Formspree and business courses that sucked his brain power away.

P2 was a lot better with CK and Rohit in the mix, but I still managed to be brutal to Ali. I think I have got to learn to work in a team a lot better and ensure that I take the blame and come up with solutions and actually work with them instead of just getting upset or trying to drive for them. I believe TA'ing vision has helped me out with mentoring and explaining things a lot better, but it could definitely do with a lot more work. I have this issue where if I believe a person is competent I tend to give them a lot more flack for something if they don't actually accomplish it. It's really messed up. CK and I finished up the biggest portions of P2 during Spring Break and honestly ended up doing a majority of the work in the week following.

P3 was when Ali decided that our team wasn't for him, and ended up going to a different team. VM was supposedly the hardest project and we really ended up feeling that close to the end. Rohit bottled this one big time, as I spent so much time with him trying to explain the algorithm and get him to implement it. He ended up messing it up, so we all sat down and implemented a version. Ended up rewriting the whole thing twice because of minor bugs that Rohit managed to catch (his biggest contribution haha). We spent close to 12 hours on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday each before hitting the point where we thought all the tests were passing. Cue the music to go to Torchy's and have some fun before coming back. After coming back, we realized that some tests were randomly failing and it wasn't isolated at all. The race conditions had struck our code! Trying frantically to introduce locks didn't help, and since we had to finish up our design docs we ended up just praying to the race condition gods that our code would pass the tests. It is still to be seen what our issues were that day.

By the time P4 came around, I became extremely swamped up with other class work. I felt like I had contributed more than my share of the work. We tried really hard to get as much as possible percentage complete in P4, but it ended up falling to CK to pull through for us in the end. I think my grade didn't really matter at that point, but it definitely helped Rohit out.

The tests for OS were some of the most ridiculous I've encountered. They required an absurd amount of memorization that I wasn't comfortable enough with. It ended up being really painful to go through all the various slides and get enough of the content in my head to be successful. They were also really specific about the keywords that they wanted which really didn't help. However, as a former TA myself, I can sympathize with their specificity in their grading rubric. If they need to be fair across the 150 students in the class, they need to have a tough rubric like that as otherwise, the grading distribution would be all over the place. I remember just going through each of the slides and literally just writing down the same thing in my notes, which is such a terrible way of testing the knowledge of someone.

### SDS325H

Honors Statistics was a class that I never would have taken unless I had a group of Turing godly friends. It ended up that so many people took the class on Sid's suggestion. I only managed to register and take the class because Sam Barani told me that he was trying to take it and that he talked to JG Scott, who allowed him to take the course.

The class ended up being a practical lesson on probability, modeling, and statistics. It was taught in a way that made the concepts extremely clear and easy to understand. The first half we literally just used R to try and ran experiments with various tools and wrote reports on them. Working with the rest of the group helped me develop better technical writing abilities as I'd never really written good technical reports before. I'll forever be thankful for that experience as it really forced me to learn Latex properly that ended up being used in so many CS classes. I've yet to transform my resume into the standard Latex resume though! 

The second half of the semester was more probability and the theory behind the work we were doing in class. I honestly regret not paying as much attention as I did. I think OS ended up taking too much of my brain bandwidth. Combined with the timing of the class after lunch, it ended up being a poor situation.

### GOV 312L
Government in foreign policy was an interesting course with McDonald and Moser. While the professors spoke extremely slowly, the class itself tended to be fairly interesting especially about the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. The essay that we had to write on a topic was truly horrible as it ended up bringing my grade down to an A- despite scoring really well on all the tests and assignments in the class. The multiple multiple choice questions on the tests were fairly tricky that caused a lot of us to get really tripped up as we didn't know what the exact answers were as we never attended classes properly. 

### E 316L - British Literature:
British Literature had a good professor, but since I sat in the back with Sumanth, I got absolutely nothing done. Each class was basically a book reading session, while the discussion sections I just paid attention the first few times properly before just not caring again. The first test was really bad as I didn't know how to properly construct the essay and study for the class. They also had this section where we had to analyze a poem that you hadn't seen before and provide insightful analysis about what the poem meant, even though it was in Middle English. This aspect was extremely challenging and was essentially guesswork for the majority of the class. I even ended up trying to go to the writing center to try and get advice on a) my essay for the class and b) to crack the poem interpretation things. I managed to ace the final by relying on the bonus questions that they would give that allowed me to get a lot of extra points in the class. 

---
Finals
The final week of that semester was fairly bad as I had OS final project, OS Final, Gov last midterm, SDS final project, and English Final all in one week. Luckily, there was some gap between most of them, but I didn't really get a chance to fully switch between tasks and was constantly on the go between them. The worst ones were definitely the SDS final project, where we basically pulled another all-nighter trying to finish it with the English Final where I was up till 4 am in the GDC with Sumanth. 

The highlight of the semester was definitely the all-nighter that Sumanth, Channing, Darshan, and I pulled trying to finish our Government essays a week after spring break. We spent the whole time writing our essays, before ending up going to Austin's Pizza in the pouring rain. Post some excellent pizza, we took Garbage bags and used them as ponchos and headed to Whitis to complete our work. What a night, and hence Garbage Squad was born.

---

During spring break, the host matching process kicked started into full gear. My recruiter first offered me a full front end team that played ultimate, but I turned them down to go to News SRE and work on the Canary Regression pipeline team. Little did I know how much that would bite me later. Honestly, I stressed about the host matching decision so much back then. I was so worried that whatever I chose would determine my career for years to come. This was added to the fact that some others had already been matched to teams and I hadn't heard anything back from any teams, which was naturally quite worrying.

I think when I spoke to Tony, I really blindly listened to what he said, instead of carefully analyzing the flaws of what he was saying. In fairness, he sold it really well in comparison to the work I was going to end up doing. The canary regression work sounded really interesting relative to what I ended up having to do with Borgmon.

---

# Summer 

The end of the semester, while eventful, came down to a halt as I had to go to Tara's wedding before heading to Google. Packing was a pain as usual as I had to take all my stuff necessary to go directly to Google for the summer. I think I ended up just taking a single suitcase of stuff, but it still was quite a lot of work trying to figure out what to take and what not to take for the summer.

Tara's wedding was awesome as I hadn't seen everyone in quite some time. Spending time with Vikram, Tara, Avinash, and Patti Thatha was a really nice experience. This was added to the fact that I haven't really attended too many Indian weddings. There really haven't been any weddings in the close family that I attended, so it was quite nice having to dress up and escorting everyone and generally being a host and running around. But, I definitely would never want something that complicated for my wedding. It was really absurd the number of arrangements that have to be done to get ready for the wedding.

It was quite sad having to leave Tara's wedding before the reception in Kerala, but I did have to fly to Google for the internship. After losing my wallet and getting sick (thus ditching a Mahabaleshwar trip), I ended up taking the trip to New York directly. I definitely should have gotten Google to pay for my trip, but can't do much about it.

--- 

## Google Internship

They put me in the fancy Gansevoort Hotel in the Meatpacking district in Manhattan. It was a really fancy hotel, but the feeling of depression that I had on arriving in New York didn't leave me. I also managed to leave my Kindle on the flight pocket when leaving the flight, much to my angst. I remember completely breaking down with Appa and Amma about being all alone in the hotel room that day. I was starting work the next day, but it was still really hard trying to get a night without anyone I was close to nearby. I think I went and got pretty bad Chipotle for food without realizing that Google would just reimburse everything that night.

Orientation itself was an absolutely amazing time. I met with Eric Lee, Margalit, Alex, Landon, and so many more during that one week. We got to do so many cool activities like going to MOMA, the green walk on the converted train tracks, central park, and getting to visit Gopal and Janani. The NY office was incredible in terms of the sheer size, the food, and the smoothies. It was an absolute blast starting work without really having to meet my team and not knowing what my project was. Basically, a free paid week of fun. I think this eventually did come to bite me as I had a delayed ramp up when compared to other people. I also managed to get that awesome profile picture at the top of Google NY where Eric and I just watched the sunset happen slowly. Definitely, a night to remember.

I got to fly to Boston next, where I discovered that Uber's were restricted to a certain part of the airport pickup system. It ended up being so much expensive than I expected, but they were paying me well. I was pretty happy with the room that we had got, especially when I saw the amazing projector and speaker system that the people we were leasing from had. I met Aryan and Aryaman at this point for the first time. We ended up having some amazing times during that summer, though I definitely stayed at home during the weekends a lot that summer relative to the Uber summer. Hopefully, at Facebook I won't end up doing that and I'll actually do fun activities over the weekends!!

The roommate situation turned out quite well. I managed to find Aryan on the Google Cambridge interns Facebook group. He knew AJ from high school and AJ knew Avinash. Due to this, each of us had some link to the other. Obviously, they knew each other a lot better than I knew each of them, but we built up a really good friendship over the summer. I think we would have done a lot more things if one of us had a car and we could go around, but the addition of a projector system, a PS4, and Netflix, this soon devolved into Game of Thrones and Parks and Recreation binge-watching sessions during the weekdays and weekends.

That summer I also attempted to do the Georgia Tech online Computer Vision class. I think by taking that class and spending a lot of time on it over the weekends I actually lessened my productivity during work as I was using my brainpower for that instead of doing actual work. The class itself was really good as it taught me a lot of the fundamentals of Computer Vision that I wouldn't have understood until a while later.

The work at Google itself wasn't that interesting as it was just replacing a Borgmon data processing pipeline with a new request based system in Go. It took so long to just understand Borgmon and all the moving pieces associated with that. Then, my manager, Tony, left for PTO for 3 weeks that left me in a limbo where I couldn't make enough progress without a solid direction to move in. This really affected my midterm evaluation's and I believe a big reason why I didn't get the offer in the end. The ramp-up period for getting familiar with Google's infrastructure and policies without a starter task was also quite a challenge that I wish could have been avoided.

That summer was really amazing outside of work as I managed to do so many social activities. I got to meet the Chavan's all the way in New Jersey and spend time with Gopal's family for July 4th weekend. I also got to spend a few days in Mountain View visiting Periamma and UT friends at Google whilst attending the SRE conference for interns.

---

At the end of the internship, I had plans to move into 21 Rio on a Saturday. The moving office was supposedly only open on that day and Amma was arriving on Monday. I had to order in a mattress and bedframe by that time and get some basics set up in the apartment before she came. However, American Airlines decided to completely wreck my plans and decided to cancel the flight at 2am and informed me by just leaving a voice message. 

I naturally slept through this and woke up and got ready at 6 am for my flight at 8am (I think?). When I opened Inbox, it did say that the flight was canceled but I thought it was Google's error (ironically), and continued to get ready. Only when I exited the apartment and left the keys did I check the voicemail and realize that the flight had been canceled and that they rebooked me for something at 6pm that evening, or so I thought in my groggy state. I told the Uber driver to go back to the apartment and realized that I left my keys inside and had locked myself outside the apartment with a large suitcase full of my belongings. Completely panicking, I called Appa up to talk about what my best option at the time was. He suggested that I go to the airport and try to find another flight so that I arrive in time to pick up the various items. I did proceed to do that and luckily the points I'd accumulated helped me get served in the priority helpdesk. At this point, they informed me that I had been booked onto a flight on the next day leaving at 6pm. Obviously, this didn't work for me as I didn't have a place to stay in Boston for the night. The airlines didn't even try to reimburse me for the troubles. They ended up booking me on a roundabout route through Phoenix that got me in Austin at midnight on that day. At that time in the night, I obviously didn't have a place to stay, so I called Padma Aunty and asked whether I could stay the night because of the flight cancellations. They were kind enough to agree, and so my biggest issue was out of the way.

After clearing security, I just called up Appa and remember completely breaking down on the phone with him. I think I just was really homesick at the time, but the tears just wouldn't stop when speaking with him. This is a repeated issue where something outside of my control happens and I need some family member to just be there while I consider what my options are and just stress out completely. After speaking for one of the longest times with Appa, I was strongly recommended to get breakfast before I boarded my flight on the long route back to Austin. The only benefit for this large detour was the time I had to read the whole way.

I arrived in Austin and was luckily picked up by Vikram, who drove all the way to pick me up. The next day Uncle and I tried calling up Rio, but they never picked up our calls. We drove all the way in the morning to see if the office was open to collect my keys and move in. They weren't open at the time when we went, but they were open in the afternoon! I ended up going all the back in the afternoon with all my stuff. The apartment was in a real mess, so I hit Ali up to get a broom and some cleaning supplies. The next day the mattress and bed frame came to the apartment. I set up both of them before Amma came and then went and picked her up.

Amma's week in Austin was completely dominated by thunderstorms and rain. She came on Monday with a full suitcase full of stuff to give me in the apartment. I can't really remember what we did that first day, but we soon did an Ikea trip to see some furniture as well as having food at Romano's Macaroni Grill. Before that, we got completely drenched trying to head to the domain and a Target there with the flooding that had happened near the stadium and getting onto the bus. 

I finally got the chance to take her around campus properly, something that wasn't able to do with Appa when he first came to UT in freshman year. She got really scared by the basement of the GDC, my home, as it was really dark as no one was there yet and the lights hadn't turned on. It was nice getting a chance to explore some of the areas that I hadn't explored as of then like the LBJ side and the Architecture library. One of my favorite experiences was getting a chance to go to the top of the UT tower while a storm front was coming in and just getting the view of the campus area and Austin as a whole.

In the middle, I was getting stressed with getting some basic cooking supplies so that we could eat. I eventually just shipped Rohit's keys to me and managed to get my box of stuff from him like that. That time was just so stressful as I had so much stuff going on that I had to do. 

# Junior Year

--- 
### Roommates moving in
Luckily, the time between Amma leaving back for California and the roommates coming in was really limited and only one night. Sid brought along his parents and they were kind enough to take us all to IKEA to buy all the stuff we needed. I had to buy a desk, chair, and lights while Sid had to buy many more items. We eventually got a lot of the living room and common items from random sources like Craigslist and Gilad for the awesome couch and barstools. 

## Fall Semester

### Classes

**Graphics:** under Dr. Fussell was a course where I learnt an incredible amount from the projects but ended up not spending as much time paying attention in class. I think the fundamental issue about the class was that since it had a final project but not a final, I basically stopped paying attention after the midterm. This was a problem as I don't have a great understanding of bezier splines and some other concepts of GPU programming that were taught in the course, but ones that we never implemented. 

One of my all time favorite projects was working on the Ray Tracer project to render a 3D scene using the Whitfield Model and projecting light rays out and using realistic reflections and refractions to get the pixel values. To make the model fast, we had to use a kd-tree, whose implementation was extremely difficult. To debug the kd tree on the day it was due, only to realize that the issue wasn't in my kd tree but in the shading coding was one of the best moments ever. The speedup from the kd tree was absurdly high as it dropped the rendering time down from taking 5 minutes down to 2.3 seconds and even got me the second fastest render time in the class, something that I wasn't even trying to go for. I'm honestly so happy that the "What a God" absurdity hadn't started at that point, though now I think I avoided it by just not hanging out with the GDC squad as much as I'd always be on the 3rd floor. 
 
The projects after Ray Tracing were definitely lacking compared to the complexity of Ray Tracing, but it did allow me to actually interview at companies and work on other classes most of the time. Getting to know Dallas, Vishal, Michael, and Sam was incredibly useful in doing well in the class. Getting their help on the Menger Cube and Skinning assignments was absolutely critical, as I was completely lost on those projects and would have completely blundered without them. The skinning project's complications regarding the multiple coordinate systems and solving for them were really complicated, but gave me a much better understanding about coordinate spaces and how to use them effectively and properly in 3D problems.

For the final project, Dallas, Jerry, and I worked on a Leap Motion project that was basically a worse implementation of the cube playground in Unity by the Leap Motion developers. It was fairly interesting but we had a lot of issues with getting the leap motion to work in a manner that wasn't poor and constantly jittery.

#### Real Analysis
One of the hardest courses that I have ever taken in my life. I thin kthis course was a big reason why I basically stopped taking a lot of the math courses and harder theoretical courses, as I just didn't think I had the ability to compete with the theory knowledge required by them.

Freed's homework and classes were really hard to pay attention in, which resulted in extremely poor scores and my only B- of college. I think overall if I had taken the course with a lighter workload and worked with more people the homework would have been more doable and that would have allowed me to be better prepared for the exams, but by god was I absurdly out of my capacity when taking the course. I probably should have q-dropped the course and taken something else at that point, but oh well. If only I had taken the easier Real Analysis with Darshan, Prabhat, Guneet, and Karthik.

The week of the second test ended up being one of the worst weeks of my life as Trump got elected, Gomati Patti passed away, and I had the Real test the next day. I don't want to go too much about it, but all those events in combination with interview season made that semester one of the worst ones ever.

#### Information Retrieval
IR was another cs class that was basically completely pointless. The first exam absolutely wrecked me, but the rest of the class was fairly simple. I remember having to spend only a day or two on the assignments, except for the second assignment where nobody was sure what the correct procedure was for getting the right results. For the final, Mooney did this weird thing where he was capping the amount of people who would make A's in the class. Due to this, I needed a 95 minimum to make an A in his class. The amount I studied for that final was unbelievable. I made so many notes on the really minute aspects of the class and it definitely paid off as I got a 97.5 and clutched that A. (Remember seeing that probability question that was there on the horror midterm?) Also, his final was absurdly long, I think one of the longest exams that I've ever taken in my life. I basically was sat in the test for the whole 3 hours since there were so many calculations for k-means, page ranking, and the ridiculous amount of short answer questions that he had put on the test. 

#### Algorithms
Fraij taught algorithms that semester and I was really hoping to get a lot out of the course because I'd heard he was a decent teacher. Put the class after lunch, with a lecturer who basically just read out of the textbook and you have a student who will not pay attention. His quiz system was really annoying as he'd make you answer questions at the start of each class, though luckily he gave a lot of drops so it did turn out fine. 

### Jazz Appreciation
Jazz Appreciation taught me a lot about Jazz music in general, but it never got me to listen to jazz music after the course finished. Gilad really enjoyed the music and content in the course, but I was never as into Jazz as he was. I definitely learned a lot of stuff from the Cerego courses and content through Cerego as a platform. I think the potential of such a system can't be denied, but to waste it on a music course was disappointing. It would be very interesting to see the same results from a Bio or History course. The quizzes especially on timing still really were difficult. Even after all those years of Violin I never seem to be able to guess the timing or beats of music pieces. 

I did the final essay on the Influence of Indian music on Jazz music. This allowed me to discover John Coltrane was highly influenced in the last few years of his life by Sitar players and discover some of Appa's favorite artists.

---

## Good Old Interviews

I went into Junior Year with the assumption that I'd be able to land a lot of internships, particularly at good companies. I also thought that I'd get the Google return offer, that they took forever to actually tell me about. I definitely had landed in the complacency portion of my life and was unwilling to forsee the doom that was about to come about. On my high horse, I was expecting to get the return offer and kept Google as my bottom line for companies, and didn't really talk to companies who I in my naivety considered below the big G. I kept Google as a backup as my previous track record of interviewing was quite poor and I had only ever gotten 1 offer every year, something that would continue to hold until senior year.

Google took ages to actually tell me the status of my return offer status, and it didn't help to be surrounded by people who kept telling me that I'd get it purely because they did. I heard about the Google rejection in the middle of Jazz Appreciation, and completely broke. The lack of communication and just disappointment in myself was definitely up there in the worst moments of my life. I think I blamed a lot of it on doing the Udacity course over the summer and prioritizing that instead of prioritizing the work. Part of it looking back may have been that the work was a lot of figuring out moving components rather than coming up with more innovative ideas and dealing with challenging problems.

Something like this brought the insecurities and self-confidence issues that I had and less so have to the forefront, especially in regards of me believing in myself. The biggest kicker was that I heard about this after the career fair, and a lot of the better opportunities were already slipping by me due to my complacency. I just had not done enough preparation for the interviews in relation to the effort that I put in a year later and that really came to bite me. 

I went through Microsoft onsites, airbnb, palantir, linkedin single round, quora single round, and finally uber. The facebook one was by far the worst as I completely blanked how to store the mapping of the list whilst doing DFS, something that I immediately practised so much after. This was also the first year that I started switching interviewing in python during the linkedin interview, as I realized it would be so much faster than normal Java for string or normal questions in general. I hadn't gone on my full absurd setup at this point, though it was coming along especially on the vim side.

Uber was definitely a meh achievement as I thought I could've done better and was just worried that it wouldn't be that great. That was even before the scandals had come out, but I wouldn't have expected how much of a challenge and the fun I had interacting with an older team. 

I purposefully bombed my palantir interviews, as the whole interview season in addition to my hardest semester at college was one of the most draining periods of my life. I literally needed a semester to just recover from it before being able to go ham over the next summer, but it was a really bad time. Finally getting uber was really just a sigh of relief more than an accomplishment which is really absurd considering how good of a startup the company is. I guess my expectations had already become so high that I wasn't willing to compromise on the quality of my internship experience as of that point. I definitely promised myself that I wouldn't set myself up for the same situation where I was lacking for choices instead of drowning in choices.

---

### Cooking

That semester, though one of the roughest, I really found out that I get urges to just cook food and really enjoyed the social aspect of cooking with and for friends. Starting to make dosas, pav bhaji, chole, and staying away from pasta (haha) was really a discovery process for what I enjoyed in terms of food. I started having more spice than I've had in the past especially in terms of red chilli powder, but I'd change to having a lot of green chilles as well. It got to the point where I'd need spice and crunch so much in my food, that I'd start changing Amma's dishes when I'd go back home over the holidays. Oh, that semester also I had an absurd amount of Rasam as I'd still not realised that I could just make a wet curry and have it with plain or powder rice instead of making a whole separate dish. I also don't think I had the larger pressure cooker at this point.

---
I'm just going through the Google photos of my time during that semester and it's honestly sad how little photos I have of what I did. Just a huge part of it was spent stressing out in the GDC or in interviews. 

---
### Nose
In all that time, my nose had also gotten a lot worse where I barely could go 5 minutes without having water or even a few breaths without breathing through my mouth. The nose and phlegm attacks just kept getting worse and I had basically reached my breaking point where I was just unwilling to do anything other than surgery and really pressured Appa and Amma into considering that option instead of all the alternative care treatments that they wanted. 

Due to the amount of stress and limitations on time I had, exercise completely went out of the window and was a big cause for how poorly I felt about myself. I'd very rarely get the opportunity to go for a run or do anything remotely significant as such. Definitely ballooned up much more than I wanted myself to. This would change, but I'd basically be unable to do anything until Spring Break due to the surgery.

### Winter Break - Surgery

The Winter Break of Junior Year was I think the worst winter break out of the 4 that I had during college. The first half of it was ruined by having to do History at Midland College, where I had to read and write so many articles and basically was putting a lot of work in each day. I didn't really get the opportunity to properly relax and it just ended up being quite stressful instead of being a relaxing break where I had time to do things. We had to do community replies, opinion posts with sources, and have some random quizzes each day. If I ever tried to get ahead during the two week period, I would fall behind over the weekend and would have to start from square one all over again. I definitely spent much more time than I should have on the course, but I did get it over with in 2 weeks instead of spending a whole semester hating the course like I did with some of the government courses. 

Since I hadn't had as much time to relax, the few days I had between getting the surgery and finishing the course were spent in trying to build a RemindMe messenger chatbot that would remind me to do tasks. I eventually did abandon it as I could never get rq to work with Heroku. It wasn't a particularly interesting project, but I think I was attempting to work on it as my confidence about getting into vision or ml was really low due to the Google Hammer and was just expecting that I'd have to do normal software engineering instead of something more interesting.

The decision to go through for the surgery took around 4 meetings with doctors before all 3 of us were set that it was the right decision and the timing made sense. Bannerjee was incredibly helpful through the process as he recommended doctors and gave his feedback on the whole process. I definitely messed up by misremembering that Maitreyee's dad was an ENT, but oh well. 

With my weird weakness of listening to medical procedures, it was really hard for me to go through the meetings about the defects in my body and how to correct them. During the first meeting with the doctor in Ruby Hall Wanowrie, I literally had to step out of the meeting and take a walk around while he was explaining how we would correct the deviated nasal septum. This incident was nothing compared to the one in the main Ruby hall where the poor nurse stuck the camera up my nose in that steel rod-esque device that made me bawl my eyes out. Incredibly painful, I never wanted to go through that experience again as it was really excruciating. The doctor herself made the surgery seem really trivial and easy, something that felt very absurd and unrealistic, but my confidence grew when she just pulled out her phone and started just flexing off with the number of patients she had operated on.

The fact that the surgery would not necessarily help with the allergy side of things wasn't even a concern for me back then as I just had too many issues just comfortably breathing normally. Back then, I'd go through so many bottles of water, whereas as I'm typing this I haven't felt the urge to just have some water as I'm breathing normally without difficulty or blockages breathing. The other concern about the surgery was that the recovery time was going to be limited as I had to fly back to the US for college without a full support system. It was really unclear if I'd be ready to fly such a long distance journey especially since the surgery would take a lot out of me and my body. The surgeon told us about cases where they'd sent patients overseas two-three days after the surgery, which was obviously very positive relative to what we had heard. I think more convincing to me was speaking to Kevin about his experience going through the process and telling me that he was completely fine within a week.

Getting checked into the hospital was a relatively fine process and luckily went without any hiccups. They started giving me various medications, asking me detailed questions, and got me to change into that absurd hospital garment. The nurses took care of all my food while Appa and Amma had to fend for themselves. During all this, I was trying to read Malazan Book of the Fallen's Kharsansas series, but that was a pretty long, dry, and hard read. Amma spent next two nights in the room with me, and from what I remember the first night was fine. I think the most scary portion of that first day was them putting the device in my arm for the IV process. I got so paranoid that I would rupture something in my arm that I kept my left wrist completely stiff the whole time, until Appa got a nurse to talk some sense into about how safe the thing was. 

I slept pretty well the night of the surgery and didn't have any issues. It was quite annoying not being able to drink water or have food after 6 am since the surgery was scheduled to be at 12 or something like that. However, it took a really long time for them to bring me to the surgery room, and so I was just trying to read whilst being really hungry the whole while. When it was time, a male nurse literally got me on a wheelchair and escorted me all the way to the waiting area where we played the waiting game for a lot longer. I was kind of frustrated with how long I had just been waiting, as it was 2-3 hours after the time that they had communicated to us. 

When I was wheeled into the operation room, they got the anesthesia mask on my mouth and nose. I recall being completely in control of my senses and then just waking up in a room with the mask on me, desperately needing water, unable to breathe through my nose and being literally handcuffed to the bed. I remember literally begging the nurse for water as my mouth was just ridiculously dry and I was completely helpless strapped to the hospital bed. I got the attention of the nurse in the room by literally banging with the handcuff on the metal railing beside me. Only after he removed the mask was he willing to give me something like water. I think he gave me some ice to just keep in my mouth, but only later did I learn that you aren't allowed to give patients water after they come off of anesthesia initially. Obviously, I wasn't communicated this important fact when the doctor was briefing us about the procedure. 

I finally got to see Appa and Amma as they were wheeling me outside of the operation centre and was able to give them the thumbs up. I definitely was rambling the whole time about water on the way to the hospital room that they had given us. Finally there, they got me setup on the bed and all I did was ask about water. I think it was around 6 or 7 pm when I was brought back to the room and all I was asking was how soon I could have water. The nurse had the audacity to tell me that I could only have water with whatever food I was supposed to have at 8 pm and I absolutely was unwilling to stand for that. Even more so since apparently the doctor had given Appa and Amma different instructions about the specific timings associated to that. I don't think I've been in a more desperate situation just waiting to get those small few sips of water after the surgery. Poor Amma tried to do this pathetic attempt at hiding the water bottle behind her as she went outside the room, but I don't blame her haha. Just called her out as soon as I had the strength to do it :).

When I finally got the go ahead for water, Appa and Amma somehow decided it would be a good idea to feed me water with a spoon instead of letting me have it directly like a normal human being. I understand where they were coming from, but I was thirsty and my throat was parched to hell and beyond. They then tried to bring out fruity or some other juice instead of just allowing me to have more water. Amidst all of this, I was supposed to have gotten food at 8, but it got delayed and was basically brought from outside the hospital a while later much to Amma's anger. I genuinely didn't care, I had water but I still struggled a lot as swallowing was extremely painful. Since I had to breathe with my mouth all the time, I had to take sips of water ever few minutes otherwise my mouth would be just as parched as before.

That night was definitely the worst of my life. I basically pulled an all-nighter as I couldn't breathe through my nose and needed water every few minutes. Amma tried staying up as much as possible, but eventually started sleeping as well (sn as well :( but don't blame her). I was up trying to read Kharkansas, but failing miserably and just was trying to stay up by getting the US friends to send me jokes as I needed the positivity. I can't remember if I ever slept that night, but it was definitely the longest night in my 22 years of living. I think I managed to sleep a bit the next morning, but it was still quite uncomfortable with the nose pack in my nose. 

Definitely felt betrayed that none of pune people came to visit me during one of the hardest times of my life. I think this was the inflection point of getting much closer with the Austin folks instead of them. I think they removed the pack just before I was given the ok to be discharged from the hospital. The nights and days of that next week until we got to know about Neti made it the worst weeks of my life. With fever, bleeding from the nose, inability to sleep, bedrest, weakness, and most of all loneliness it became incredibly difficult to stay positive. 

Finally was able to give a good tongue bashing to them when they had come over, but it was really quite pathetic the state I was in that first week after the surgery. The second week was a lot better but I still hadn't recovered to anywhere close to full strength when I was supposed to take my flights out of Pune. 

Overall, definitely one of the much worse breaks that I've had during college.

## Junior Year Spring Semester

I think initially my biggest worry was that I wouldn't get into the classes I really wanted to get into at the time. This included literally all of my cs courses as 2 of them were honors in Computer Vision and Data Mining, and the other one was the highly requested AI course taught by Niekum. I think I was initially in Programming Languages taught by Cook (had an incredible story about his cancer survival and his 11 surgeries whilst continuing to be a Java God), physics, physics lab, and some normal cs course that I don't remember sadly. To get into the honors programs, I had to submit an application stating my interest and experience in the field and prove that I'm competent enough to take the course. Luckily for vision, I'd done the Georgia Tech course as well as maintained a high GPA whilst demonstrating interest in AI related topics. I think that was a primary factor in addition to early application timing that allowed Grauman to choose my name as one of the four selected. I remember being super stressed out about getting into the course as the first day there literally wasn't enough seating for everyone and people had to sit on the floor. The advising office was able to tell me the good news on a Thursday evening, after not contributing in two of the classes as I didn't feel comfortable answering questions in class as I wasn't in it yet. Data Mining under Franke was a joke as no one wanted to get in, so it was basically trivial trying to get into the course. Even for AI, I was quite low (meaning high rank) in the wait-list and was quite stressed about getting into the course when CK, Prabhat, and Darshan were all into the course. Thankfully, Niekum scared everyone away by stating that the course would be very difficult, would require a lot of programming projects, and should be expected as an above average or difficult course to take. This scared a whole bunch of people and I was able to take the course miraculously. It was truly a miracle that I managed to get into all the courses I wanted to that semester.

### Courses

#### Computer Vision
Vision was honestly one of the best courses that I have ever taken at UT. Grauman was an incredible lecturer who managed to pace the class really well by combining questioning and just plowing through content with really well made slides. That doesn't even cover the fact that she made it really welcoming to ask questions in the midst of a turing class with some of the smartest people I've met. I wished I could've gone to more of her office hours, but I definitely made up with class participation sitting literally in the front row. 

The projects during the class weren't the best as we had to code in the terrifyingly bad MATLAB and a lot of them just ended up being parameter twiddling. However, the main interesting part came through the analysis portion where you actually had to come up with reasonable arguments why your data and results made sense with different combinations. She also gave a chance for the creative people in the class to highlight themselves by having a showcase of the projects during class after the assignments had been graded. 

I found that her tests were some of the fairest out there with an incredible focus on understanding the fundamentals of the topics instead of memorization. The test definitely focussed more on the pros and cons of algorithms too much, but some of the open ended design questions were really great to just think during the test. I felt that I didn't have enough time to get to finish the whole test properly during the midterm week of hell 1.0, that ended up getting me a score of 83.5. I really thought that the test shattered a lot of my dreams of doing research with her and just getting access to more things within vision.

The projects were where I decided to make my comeback. I did decently on the first two projects in Seam Carving and Segmentation, but I just spent so long in MATLAB debugging things and getting things working consistently. The homography assignment I literally rewrote because of a single line of code that I thought was right. The search assignment was horribly close to the deadline where all of us got terrible results and the results made literally made no sense. 

The final project was where I decided I needed to go absolutely ham. I think I have tried that hard like 3 times in my life. It was so stressful being stuck in the gdc without good results until literally the day before the assignment was due. That sunday in the gdc was horrible where I was just snapping about how frustrated I was with the performance of my code. Ended up re-writing and managed to get above 90% performance that Monday. When I managed to get the 93.6 result I was literally on top of the moon, before Josh stressed me out again with his 93.7. The next few nights were just a stressfest where I was genuinely concerned that I wouldn't even make the top 5 in the competition. Managed to get the joint number one position that was honestly amazing. Definitely, shocked at how I managed to pull it off, though Brahma managing to just obliterate it a year later definitely put a damper in my mood haha. Makes it much more bittersweet knowing that it was just parameter fiddling instead of doing anything remotely smart. 

But, that got me within the door of success in my opinion. It gave me the belief that I was finally up there with the best and had the capability to do actual work in Computer Vision, the dream for the longest time. After the Google Rejection, this was the kickstart in my regaining some portion of my self-esteem. Hopefully, it stays up for a while before it's brought crashing down again. 

Going to the classes at 9:30 am with Darshan was definitely a lot harder than I expected. Consistently, paying attention in class so early was one of the hardest periods for my attention strangled brain. It didn't help that on Tuesdays and Thursdays I had 3 classes each, whilst on the other days it was relatively light. The schedule made the midterm literally impossible to do well on as I had 3 on a day.

Preparing for the final in the GDC after all the other tests was done was also relatively stressful. I knew I had to do really well to be able to talk to her, but at the same time I wasn't confident in my ability to do well on the test. But, the thing with me is that given a test, I'm able to figure out how to study for the next one so much better than going in blind. It lets me figure out what are the key points to focus on within each topic and what sorts of questions are really likely. I think this fact made it really hard for me to do well on the first midterm of any class relative to the final.

The final was a pretty long exam, as I used pretty much the whole 3 hours on the test. Again, thought it was one of the most fair and detailed tests that I've taken with a lot of scope for exploration during the test in terms of thinking and coming up with algorithms on the spot.

Emailed grauman for meeting about research, and literally met with her on the day of the exam. Then was done, but had one of the worst nose attacks when I took my Uber picture, that definitely looks like I was on some drugs. 

### Artificial Intelligence
I thought AI under Niekum was pretty bad in terms of what I got out of the course. I came in with a lot of knowledge about the more standard topics that we discussed and was less interested in the esoteric topics that he talked about. The most important being Reinforcement learning and MDP's. It may have been a shear lack of understanding those topics, which is definitely possible considering the midterm, but I don't think so. CSP's (Constraint Satisfaction Problems) had their place, but I didn't see myself particularly using them. 

As a teacher, Niekum was quite entertaining, but due to the timing of the class after lunch on Tuesday's and Thursdays I never really paid that much attention even sitting in the first row. Or if I did, it would be to take really subpar notes. Since I knew that there were online recordings of better explanations, I mainly relied on those for content or portions I didn't understand. 

I had some pretty major problems with the projects that we did in the class. Most of the projects were just plug and chug assignments that didn't require much thinking and just ended up being a) find the position to modify the code, b) implement algorithm, c) win. There wasn't any real exploration or deeper understanding possible with way everything went. Initially I thought that since all the projects were meant to be done in partners, but then they all turned out to be so simple that it was really trivial to complete. The contest would have been really exciting and competitive had it been held, but it never was so that became a missed opportunity. Josh and Zihao had a chance to do that the next year, but our batch missed out on working on the competition. It ended up working in my favor as I would have had less time to work on the vision final project.

Studying and preparing for that midterm was quite an experience. He'd given us the Berkeley tests as preparation, but that was literally impossible to solve and get correct within the timeframe. I still stand by the fact that if I had unlimited time some of those questions I just would have no clue how to solve. Seeing those tests made me really glad that I didn't go there for college and get my already meek self-esteem smashed into the ground. I spent so long just compiling notes and studying slides instead of being much more productive and doing the practice tests. First practice test was an absolute disaster a couple of days prior to the test, where I basically couldn't do a single question properly. We (CK, Prabhat, Darshan) spent time freaking out about how hard the tests were before starting practice on the Berkeley tests. We never thought that he'd just put questions down from the prior tests. I still can't believe he did that on the test and even repeated that on the final.

I did have 3 tests on the day, and so as expected got wrecked on the test. After spring break, my motivation for paying attention in class and focusing on the projects reduced even more as time went on. 

However, the final was looming on us and none of us had a plan other than doing all the Berkeley tests. There were like 32 tests each of which was 3 hours long. CK and I decided that the week before the test that we'd dedicate our lives to try and do all of the tests as we weren't going to get better realistically any other way, we had the time after I finished my vision final project, and my other classes didn't matter as much as AI and vision. Thus began the great 4-5 days of torture of sitting in the basement of the GDC and just toiling away solving different types of tests. It was really a rough couple of days where we sheerly didn't know what we were doing the first couple of days particularly on the Bayesian mathematics and graph side, but eventually figured it out. I got so much better at using Bayes Theorem due to the sheer amount of problems that I solved in that class. I wished that sort of cramming could have been more useful long term instead of being such a short term improvement, but that's the way cramming goes. By the time of the exam, it was crazy how much time we had put into solving the practise tests. At that point, we'd like to have been more confident in solving any type of question that came our way, but we definitely were banking on Niekum just reusing the old Berkeley questions and him not expecting anyone as insane as us to sit and solve most of the questions in advance. It definitely gave us an inordinate advantage, but hey it cost us a full week of our lives. I think that's definitely one of the maximum amounts of effort that I've put into studying for a test in my life.

In fact, I've realized that I'm already forgetting a lot of the terminology that I was frequently using during college. Who knew that I'd blank on what the word for induction was during today's meeting after spending so much time on it both in school and Discrete Math. 

We definitely gave Prabhat a lot of "What a God" nonsense after he scored the highest out of us on the super hard midterm after studying just a night. The fact that I spent two weeks trying to study and this kid just came with a night's preparation blew my mind away. I still find it incredible that he basically pulled an all nighter for every test for the time that I knew him. The previous semester was also the first time that I started destroying CK in tests and classes, but I think I definitely was much more motivated to do well in the classes we took over him. I mean they were all ML and data oriented courses.


### Data Mining
Quite possibly the most useless class that I've ever attended or taken in my life. I consider a lot of the non-technical courses to be far more useful in my general life than this course, and that really says something considering my personality and love for technical classes and challenges. Franke as a teacher had no clue what he was doing in the course from an organizational perspective. He was out of touch when it came to what projects and homeworks an honors class with smart students was expecting from the course and instead assigned assignments that I believe a 4th grader could do legitimately. The assignments just involved setting up a WEKA app, changing some parameters around, and copy pasteing the output in the document. There was barely any analysis involved in figuring out the underlying details of the models or algorithms. All we were taught was the terminology and how to use it in WEKA which was completely useless for any of us. 

I genuinely doubt that a single one of us from that class would take anyone seriously who used that product. I agree it made data processing easy, but we didn't write a single line of code in any language in the entirety of the class. Not even a single proof if you want to take the theory class route. Overall, complete disappointment. 

Maybe you thought that the tests would be good? Nope. Open laptop, open notes, open everything and the answers were literally just finds in the useless textbook that he'd assigned us. I remember that the one useful thing that I'd learnt was something related to SVM's that I think I woud've learnt in vision instead. For the midterm and final, I even tried just reading the textbook a bit expecting some potentially challenging questions coming but it ended up being completely useless.

The biggest travesty might have been his completely arbitrary decisions on awarding participation. CK, who definitely participated more than me, ended up initially getting an A- due to his participation score. I just barely cleared it, but the overall absurdity of it caused other professors to be brought in as this idiot never took attendance a single day and just decided to determine 15% of the grade up to how much he remembered seeing us.

Considering most of the class stopped showing up, this caused a lot of issues with the whole class and I'm pretty sure that he's never teaching an honors course ever again. Hopefully, never teaches an ML course as well. Honestly, don't know how he got his PhD in NLP considering his knowledge on how to teach useful things was so poor.

No final project or anything either haha. I think the longest report might have been a page long? I think most upset about the fact that it denied me the ability to take data mining with Klivans when it was offered the next year, though I probably wouldn't have taken it.

### Physics

E&M was definitely a class that I shouldn't have taken as I really should have passed the credit test instead of failing miserably after not realizing how much harder the test was relative to mechanics. The professor was ok, all the homeworks were on quest, which you could google the questions for, and the tests were really similar to the homeworks. 

The class was just a drag on time as it'd be after AI on tuesdays and thursdays, and there were random quizzes in class that did affect your grade. I wished during that time that there was a way to escape all those quizzes, but it was never to be. With 3 midterms and a final, there were a non-trivial amount of tests in the class that corresponded to a set of 3-4 homeworks each. The one during the week before spring break was definitely the worst, as I had 2 other tests on the same day and physics was my last priority after doing well on the first midterm. After the AI midterm, I met up with Caleb who handed me a stack of homework solutions that I rushed through on our way to the midterm. I think it actually came in handy, but I was so absurdly tired from the sheer amount of thinking and context switching that I'd done previously that by the time I rushed through to the last question I'd lost all motivation. It would be the first and last time ever that I'd walk out of a test without checking the answers even a single time. It was definitely worth it to just leave that exam early. I might have caught some of the errors that I'd made, but going and getting Moojos with Prabhat and Darshan after one of the worst days during college was far far more appealing than spending time rechecking the test with a horrible headache. 

### Physics Lab
3 hours each Monday, with another half an hour every Monday morning just prepping for the brutality of the lab. That's how long I'd spend on the lab each week. What a way to start each brand new week!

The first lab was definitely the worst, where neither Caleb nor I had done the requisite preparation of scripts or proper homework to complete all the measurements and calculations on time. Our lab instructor was also kind of dickish about the grading, and so we ended up getting a poorer score than was satisfactory. 

To ensure that this never happened again and to ensure that we finished as soon as possible, each Monday morning I'd go ahead and prepare python scripts that calculated the derivatives and do the error calculations. We got a lot better at splitting the measurement and noting of the values that we could then just plug into the charting program. The prep that we did really ensured that we'd leave on time and earlier than expected. Coming in with some of the questions that could be answered without data was another way to ensure success in the lab. While we technically weren't allowed to work on the report outside of the lab hours, which is a ridiculous rule, no one could really complain as we'd just produce better quality work than normal. 

--- 

## Spring Break
Spring break came right off the series of tests that I had in Vision, AI, and Physics. I felt that I really hadn't done well at all in the vision test and thus tried to ensure that I had a chance to do research or at least have that conversation with Grauman, by going through and trying to learn deep learning and convolutions in Karpathy's course and attempting to do something productive.

However, all of these were on hold as I had started Attack on Titan and binged watched 2 seasons and around 90 chapters of the manga in 2 days. I blame CK 100% for getting me into it and all the time I've 'wasted' since then in anime and manga. To be fair to him, I have really enjoyed the plotlines in these shows, but that's a whole separate story. I should probably combine it with the book part, but who knows how it'll go.

After doing absolutely nothing for 2 days, I decided that it was finally time to get off the comfy sofa and get some progress on my goals. I went through Karpathy's 231n course notes. These were honestly the most useful notes on deep learning that I've found till now due to the succinct explanations with fabulous diagrams that explained why we use convolutions over fully connected networks. I think till this point, I didn't have a good fundamental in understanding anything in neural networks and machine learning. Looking back, that semester and especially that spring break was the turn around for me from having low-self esteem to finally making progress on the lofty goals that I set for myself. While the course did have assignments, they were hidden by the Stanford system so I couldn't really do them like the Georgia Tech content.

To fix this problem and looking at the fact that up till that point I had read a total of 0 technical papers (properly), I decided that I'd like to implement some paper to get familiarity with the process as well as getting exposure to tensorflow. I wish that I'd looked at pytorch instead at that point, because implementing anything in tensorflow had a lot of complications that didn't make sense especially when it came to debugging, but that also may be due to the fact that now I have more experience working with similar systems. Reading the paper was much harder than I expected, but I did manage to get through it. Implementing any part of it was a complete nightmare. I had to heavily, heavily rely on previous implementations already present to get to a 'working' instance. It was also pretty crappy as I didn't have a gpu nor know anything about optimizers, hyperparameter settings or in general training times. As I mentioned above, I had no way to check if it was working properly other than looking at the individual loss and the qualitative output as I just didn't know how to debug this using tensorboard or any graphing ideas. Hell, I'm still really bad when it comes to generating graphs properly (all hail tensorboardX). The project was definitely more of a resume booster and getting a working system rather than creating a perfect, optimized version, but at that point I think that was the best I was going to do. I think I did try to read some other papers like AlexNet, but don't really recall doing it to the level I'd have liked to now.

---
I was supposed to go to Big Bend during spring break with Guneet, Darshan, and Prabhat but everyone ended up ditching except Darshan and I. Prabhat had the excuse of too much work, Guneet came up with the fact that non-Austin parts of Texas was unsafe when we couldn't find close accommodation. Instead, DB, Prabhat, and I went for a day to Six Flags. Oh, my embargo on running or doing any physical exercise was finally over, so I was okay to try this, though I'm a complete wimp when it comes to rollercoasters. We went all the way to the airport to rent a car before driving down to San Antonio, for it seems like my first and last time, after arriving sometime around 10-11 am?. The first roller-coaster called 'Goliath' absolutely destroyed me as I felt really dizzy after it and it just threw me around everywhere. A personal accomplishment was actually enjoying my first roller-coaster with the 'Iron Rail', before bailing out on doing the 'Superman'. We weren't able to do as many rides as we'd have liked to do due to the sheer amount of lines that were present everywhere. It was much more expensive to get the skip the line passes, so we ended up paying less for far fewer rides. After the roller-coasters, we went to hog some desert at Cheesecake factory. All of us got the same dish with Evelyn's pasta, literally the best and honestly only good main course dish there, before attacking our cheesecakes and putting on some blubber. Darshan absolutely died afterwards as he just couldn't handle the amount of sweet in the cheesecake. It was pretty bad, but kind of funny since he'd always talk about how much sweet he could have. Since then, he's only been taking L's at sweet eating (Ghiradelli's and the ice-cream story).

Some time during that break, DB and I did go hiking at some popular trail only to climb up to the top and not have a vista point. We were so disappointed by it :(.


---

This semester was the foundation of goodfood and dank memes after the amount of quesadillas that we'd have at O's cafe on every Thursday before AI. Post spring break all of went for Holi, where post I became dedicated photographer for Darshan. I definitely got payback by using that photo in the homography assignment to put his photo on the tower of UT. Some time later, we all attended Google Games and got absolutely destroyed by Manoj's team. I did decently in that, but it was really just about tricks and puzzles instead of just brain knowledge or coding. Soon enough, the semester ended and it was time for me to head to Uber for the summer. The day before I was supposed to leave one of the worst nose attacks hit me and hence that terrible security photo haha.

# Summer 2017 - Uber and Bay Area (written in Fall 2017)

## May First Week
Arrival into Bay Area was alright, but the Wednesday after my Vision Final exam was one of the worst days of my life. Had sneezed like 200 times in the space of an afternoon. Came into San Francisco to some glorious weather and went and stayed at Shiva Chittappas place. 

At Shiva Chittappas place just chilled and spoke to Madhav. I think read Traitors Blade series here? Maybe some other series. Wish the Kindle had a way to see what you read at some point in time. 

They helped get me setup in the Airbnb (165 Texas St), which was an amazing house. I had to go buy groceries and basic supplies since I didnt know the food situation at work and stuff. That day was awesome, went walking to the Golden Gate Bridge, Ghirardelis which no one finished, got some nice pizza and then went back home. 


## Uber
**Orientation**
Nothing much really happened. Learnt a bit about Uber and saw the Heaven thing that was kinda scary. Got to know about Freight and the broken credit system. Met Ankit for the first time on that Monday, again so happy I got that team. Wished that maybe I was on a Maps team but it was okay. Did some really cool work with distributed systems. They also gave me a crappy 2012 15 inch macbook. I actually got quite used to the 15 inch macbook. Maybe something that I should consider in the future.

**Caltrain**
The first couple of days of the caltrain were really brutal. Waking up at 7 am pretty much throughout summer was really brutal. I was pretty proud that I never took a train beyond the 8am train. The caltrain schedule was literally my most viewed site on my phone and work laptop. The 1.5 hour journey was pretty brutal and got me thinking that I really dont want to stay in a city that forces me to drive on a really far journey each day. I would much rather go through public transport as I did at Google the summer before. Ideal would be 10 minute walk and then 10 minute train ride haha. But, this is really unlikely and I think I am going to be forced into getting a car. Hopefully the Tesla Model 3 becomes affordable enough / second hand so that I can get the autonomous driving features. 

**Knee Pain**
The issue was that the Caltrain Station was the opposite side of Portrero Hill where we were staying. So either I could climb up a hill at 40 deg or walk around it that took around 15 mins. I encountered a lot of knee pain the first couple of times I climbed this hiill. This lasted for like a month and a half. Till after July 4th weekend. It was by far one of the worst experiences that I have had in my life. Could not walk or run for so long because of this. Hell, even walking around was painful. Please just let me never have to go through this again. I would like to live a life where I can always run or walk around without crutches or walkers. 

**Work**
I was working on Schemaless Traffic Mirroring on the Storage SRE team. Distributed Systems work to get Backless to split the traffic that came through read requests to a new mirroring node that was part of the RAFT protocol system. Then setup the validation system that would use the commit index as the way to stop the comparison points. Ankit was super happy with the work that I did. Wrote that he would hire me in a heartbeat anywhere for my work ethic. After the Google fiasco I really wanted to prove myself and make sure that this didnt happen again. Same with the interview prep situation that I have been doing to get better at interviews. I even worked on weekends and pulled consistently more than 8 hours of work a day to get that fresh 1.5 times pay. It was quite ridiculous how much more I made because of the overtime pay. Especially the 2 weeks before my last week where I was pulling 50 hour weeks consistently. 

**Zhichao Feedback:**
He definitely gave me good feedback by letting me know that I show too many emotions when frustrated. I think the negativity associated with myself is too much. Really need to work on improving this aspect of myself. 

**Airbnb Housing Situation**
Brian, Alex and David really surprised me. Initially, I spent a lot of time with them but then slowed how much time I spent with them. Kevin also really impressed me.

Brians quirks  were some of the funniest things Ive encountered haha. Absinthe, casino in Reno, him just generally being an idiot with Secret Hitler and board games was too much fun. I hope I wasnt too harsh on him, I think I did tone it down a bit but that may also be just the guilt coming through .

One of the best parts of the summer was the amount of board game nights that we had with the other interns. It usually was just Airbnb interns which sucked, but would be cool to see if I can continue this in Senior year. 

**Weekend Trips**
There were a bunch of trips that we did over the summer. 

1. Did multiple street music festivals. 
    1. First was the Carnival with Brady, Ashvin and the whole Airbnb intern squad. Later that day Brahma and I went to Grand View Park with Sumanth, Eric, Darshan and Lily to see the mosaic tiles and the amazing view from grand View Park. 
    2. After the Berkeley Trip, we had gone to a kinda jazz festival that had some good music around. That was with Anurag, Zihao, Rohit, Brahma and one of the dropbox interns (there was a group chat on messenger)
2. Tahoe Trip
    * This was by far the best trip of the summer
    * Road trip with Brian, Anurag and Zihao where we left on Saturday Morning and came back on Monday night staying in the shadiest hotel of my life. 
    * Had so many pancakes for breakfast
    * Got to see the most amazing views of the lake surrounded by the snow capped mountains. Straight out of a fantasy novel
    * Took tons of pictures and overall was a really good time. 
3. Berkeley Trip 
    1. Took the BART to Berkeley and met up with Rohit for the first time after fall semester. That was really nice, got to chat with him a lot about the Europe trip and New Zealand trip. Super jealous haha, but so happy he got to do all those things. Hopefully May 2018 I can do a lot of the same  things that he did in our Europe trip.
    2. Berkeley itself was underwhelming. Wasnt that cool compared to Stanford later on. The best thing about their campus was probably a Subway right next to the CS building which would have been super convenient!
    3. We went to some hot pot place where it was super interesting because the containers that they served the food in had fires underneath but mine was broken where all my food was constantly boiling.
    4. After this, we BARTed back to the music festival before I headed home with Anurag and Zihao for another board game night.
4. Internapalooza and Greylock. Internapalooza was okay but Greylock was really good for getting interviews with top companies.
5. Madhav Coming up North:
    1. Went around the north East side of mission bay and walked up a hill and then went to the Exploratrium. It was pretty fun.
6. Darshan coming for the Greylock Hackfest:
    1. He slept over as well.
    2. It was super good catching up with him
    3. The next day went with him, Brahma and Madhav around Union Square to Halal Guys and generally just walked around. 
    4. Took the train down to Sunnyvale where we were joined up with Guneet to go to Darshans place. 
    5. Spoke for a really long time with Uncle (Bhavin Thaker) whos a god at Distributed Systems and was super fun to chat to. 
    6. Got some dope Indian Food and then slept after dropping Guneet Off.
    7. Went off to work the next day
    8. This was the weekend before the last weekend.
7. I think there were maybe 2 weekends where I didnt do anything because of either Knee and me being sick generally. Super irritating but it was really necessary. 
8. Went running with Rohit once, which was pretty useless. Then went to see Spider Man Homecoming which was pretty good. 
9. Final Family Trip (last weekend)
    1. Went to Padma periammas place for the night where I stayed over. Good just chilling with them. Was reading the Inda Series this time. :)
    2. The next day went to Shiva Chitappas place later than expected but arrived at around 12. They had changed plans and gone to some Mridangam Concert again as usual. Somehow got them to put Madhav into a Speech / Debate class so that he starts talking more and improves his communication skills. 
    <!-- 3. Then Shiva Chitappas temper blew up. Really dont want to talk about it here but saying stuff like kicking Madhav out of the house and talking about being happy with where he is without improving just shocked me to my core. I dont think I have met someone who is so different from what I want to be as a person.  -->

**Appa Trip**
Appa came over on June 22nd ish from New Orleans iirc (if I remember correctly). I basically took the Friday off and took him around:
1. Went to one of the best burrito places in Mission District
2. Uberd to Twin Peaks for a day without a single cloud in the sky. It was pretty amazing!
3. Walked to Golden Gate Park, my knee was still paining here
4. Then took the bus to Golden Gate Bridge. 
5. Walked the entire bridge both ways. 
    1. Saw a container ship right underneath us midway the bridge.
    2. Got to see whales super super close
    3. Had a really nice view of everything
    4. Took a half an hour break on the other side. 
6. Went to a Thai Restaurant called Blackwood which had some really good Thai Food.
7. Then went to Ghirardellis for some of the best desert ever as usual.
8. The next day we went to Bhanus place in the afternoon after roaming around Mission Bay uselessly for Appas clothing and a leather jacket for me.
9. At Bhanus place Sachin, Shashank and I played FIFA (where I thrashed them) and Monopoly (where got super unlucky). Got up kind of early for the Match which was a waste since we got destroyed. 
10. At some point after breakfast, Shiva Chitappa came with Vittal and we were chilling for a bit and then went to his place with Sachin. 
11. Played around with Madhav and Sachin and for the first time saw Madhav having fun like I have never seen him have fun. It was really sad and happy at the same time.
12. In the afternoon, went around Stanford in like 100+ heat. It was pretty bad
13. Then Shiva Chitappa dropped Appa and I at Padma Periammas place. 
14. That night was super super hot but we survived. Went to sleep and got up pretty early to catch the train to go to work.
15. Then on that Tuesday went to Suri Chawlas place to see him and Appa. That was cool, but god damn their house is massive. It was nice meeting them though. 

India Trip
1. Forgot India Sim when in Austin
2. Kshitij bunked as usual, went and stayed with Anurag but met Rucha which was super nice. 
3. Met with everyone only once
4. Did the dragon painting which I am super proud of 
5. Did a lot of competitive coding which I am super proud of 
6. Solved the dropbox coding challenge
7. Didnt manage to get the Kensho one

Read some papers that Grauman said I should read.
Biggest disappointment was getting a nice leather jacket for 20 bucks but the size was too big haha.

# India Break right before Senior Year
The break right before senior year became one of the most necessary and critical moments in the success for job finding senior year. My main purpose was to get familiar again with leetcode and competitive programming in general. I spent around two weeks at home, out of which I spent 2 weeks just dedicated on doing leetcode problems and getting ready for interview season. I just wasn't willing to accept another interview season like the junior season one. My exposure to different problem types and improvement at python was a pretty big factor at getting a lot better at solving those types of problems. I had the dropbox coding challenge that I was able to do well, which I was honestly pretty shocked about. Definitely, wasn't expecting to succeed at that coding challenge as I knew that dropboxes coding challenges and interviews were much harder than other places. Given the confidence boost, I attempted to do the Kensho interview, but failed pretty poorly. 

I also started the dragon painting, that I eventually finished exactly half of the day I was leaving. I was pretty proud of how well it turned out given that it was basically completely off the dome, and not having done any painting in a few years. 

I think I spent some more time getting programming the setup even more solidified before heading into the next year of college. 

# Fall 2017
Registration for senior year, for the first time, wasn't as bad as a struggle for registration as it was previous years. I managed to get into Neural Networks fine, but my remaining classes were tossups. I was trying to get into Grauman's Visual Recognition, which I eventually managed thanks to her help, and took History and Asian Cuisine and Culture. To ensure that my fitness was on point instead of the shambles that it had become last interview season, I registered for Weight Training to setup a regimen and hopefully stick to it. 

## Interviewing
However, the main focus of that semester was definitely interviewing full time. I started interviewing basically with only a weekend of break after arriving in Austin. Luckily, my deadline with Uber was way in November, so it was okay to have that delay on most of the interviews that honestly gave me a huge buffer period that was so useful in scheduling things. 

My first interview was straight up with companies that I wanted as it was Facebook and then Robinhood. Unlike my previous years disaster of FB where I couldn't figure out how to store the path of a simple DFS, it went a lot better (clearly I'm working for them now haha). Robinhood as well went equally better and I was looking towards 2 on-sites in October. Microsoft also allowed me to skip the initial round as I'd already reached their on-sites before, so I had 3. Google also magically got back to me later on about interviewing even though I didn't receive the return offer. 

Even before my on-site invitations started showing up, I decided to go the full shotgun approach, where I'd apply to as many companies as possible regardless of whether I'd go there over Uber. The strategy definitely worked in the first half of the interview season since I got many phone screens, but the sheer amount of onsites that I was taking on would have become insane if I had continued on at that pace of scheduling and accepting everything.

Throughout the process, I did the leetcode questions here and there but my main preparation a) was already done before in the break, b) was being done through interviews where I wasn't as interested. It's not like I didn't have my failures though. I got told no during the interview call for the VR startup that I'd met at Greylock, which was quite amusing. Similarly, I thought I did decently on the Houzz question, but didn't get the next rounds. 

I also had the two Austin onsites with indeed and retailmenot, but I was kind of bad about not replying and just kind of ignored them. I eventually did the same with airbnb once I realized that their process was just too long for too little reward. 

The actual onsite schedule was pretty brutal. Basically all of them were scheduled within a 3 week period where I had exams for a week within. I'd fly out on a Sunday, interview on Monday, fly out on Monday and then have to fly out on Thursday again for my next set. It was in this way I had Facebook, Robinhood, Microsoft, and Dropbox with Google somewhere in the middle. 

I think this was the first season where I generally enjoyed the questions and process for most of the companies I was seriously interested. Facebook's 2nd interview was a Big O exploration that we optimized 5 times which was completely nuts. Similarly, I wrote the most amount of code in my life with Google's autocomplete feature in Google Docs of all things. Robinhood's system design questions were my second foray into the field after Palantir the previous year, and I was still grossly insufficient at solving them relative to normal questions. But, they were fun and really intellectually stimulating which is what I wanted. Not to mention, I really liked the team and the work that they were working on. I was pretty disappointed by not getting the offer, but looking back it might have been for the best since I wouldn't have worked on computer vision work there. Microsoft made the 'genius' decision on their part to just dump me into Cloud instead of at least giving me the chance to interview with a team that I would be more interested in. I can see where they are coming from, but it's quite hilarious that they never take in the interviewees input for what team they'd join. I interviewed with the Azure Storage team, but I was never going to do that kind of work over my Uber team. 

It's strange to think that I eventually signed with Facebook, but at the time of getting the offer I never went into an euphoria stage other than just the immediate portion after hearing from Jarrod. Speaking of that, definitely trolled me with how long it took for me to know whether I had the offer or not. I was called me up in the afternoon around 4 asking if I had questions, and I was like "I just want to know if I've got the offer or not. None of this matters otherwise haha". He eventually told me at 10pm that day after texting me whether it was okay to call. He extended my patience severely by asking how I thought the process went, and thanking me for interviewing before letting me know that I'd got it. Definitely put me through a roller-coaster of emotions but it seems like every single recruiter does this when letting you know about the offer or not. 

Getting Microsoft and having Uber before, were essential to my Facebook negotiations, as otherwise definitely nothing would have happened. It was a weird cycle of talk to Uber, talk to FB and just throw in MSFT in the middle. 

Overall, having that many flights in such a small period of time wasn't that beneficial as it really drained the energy out of me every time I had to fly. I couldn't do any work on the flight and it really ended up just being an attrition period where I'd suffer through them before getting a chance to recover at home. I think this was a large reason why a lot of my motivation dropped after getting Facebook. Partially due to the fact that I was severely burned out from 4 years of college and going ham since the start of that year, but also since I managed to get a full time job with a solid job offer and the potential of doing vision work, though I didn't believe in myself at the time. 

## Visual Recognition
Again, a class taught by Grauman ended up being one of the most important and useful courses that I ended up taking at UT. Above everything else, I learnt how to properly read papers and comprehend them in a reasonably quick time since we had to read 2 papers minimum every week. A large amount of my time that semester was spent reading the papers from that period, which helped me a lot in the future. The class was a very useful stage for me to learn about the state of the art in computer vision, something that I knew nothing about. 

The assignments in the course forcefully made me learn Tensorflow in quite a lot of depth and taught me how to build good standards for building machine learning models and pipelines. I definitely wished I had more time to spend on the middle project, but I think it was right in the middle of interview season so I ended up doing a half baked job that did much much poorer than Santosh's godly model.

Keivaun and I worked on a Gaze-Following experiment, where again we didn't really come up with anything too innovative and just focused on getting some results. I had a lot of issues getting the models working on TACC, so we ended up just using Keivaun's dev machine to do the work instead. Similarly, my presentation went well where I presented on having ways to generate different faces using more geometric methods instead of just GAN's. These efforts were far more time-consuming than I expected and definitely had to go into cram mode close to the due date for them since Grauman liked having them finalized a week in advance. 

For our final project, Darshan and I finalized on working on a low-shot action recognition project after a lot of discussion and idea finding. Initially, we were hoping to come up with something far more innovative, but that eventually didn't go through due to how complicated the Memory Augmented Neural Networks turned out to be. Even for just getting out the plan out, we basically pulled an all-nighter to ensure that we had a valid enough plan. Many more sleepless nights would follow due to this project. Data processing and compute power ended up being a huge constraint for us going through the project since it was our first time working with video format, though Darshan did most of the work on that. I focussed on working on understanding the Memory part of the project, and more importantly how to modify some of the pre-existing code to make sure that it worked with our use-cases. 

We tried out a variety of architectures and found that we had extraordinarily good results and we just kept going with it. The problem was that we were passing the ground-truth labels as the input to the method, which was completely messing up our approach. We found this far far later due to the sheer complexity in the sequencing structure that the MANN needed. Other problems included not being able to use the 3D video training models since they were so large and we only had limited gpu access. 

Even getting the poster ready was really ridiculous, as we ended up pulling an all-nighter getting results, and finalizing the diagrams and text for the poster. We eventually just pasted on results as we didn't have them ready by the time we had to submit the pdf for getting the board made. Oh, so that was 2 all-nighters just for the poster. Then, a few days later the true killer was the discovery of the afore-mentioned bug that caused us to stay up till 8 am just running jobs in the basement of the gdc. I think both of us were definitely losing our minds at that stage as neither of us were functioning properly at all. We ended up running so many experiments that we ended up having to rerun again due to poor planning. Darshan's experiment runner was absolutely critical in getting us over the finishing line. Add that to the fact that my writing in general is terrible, and at 3-4 am it's even worse. Writing these blogs is a big bet of mine that I'll be able to improve the pace of my pitiful writing in non-crunch times and improve on the quality overall. We ended up submitting the project fine, but we never ended up getting any feedback on the project, which was somewhat disappointing. 

## Neural Nets
Neural Nets was a class that I had high hopes for, that quickly dissolved into being one of the most disappointing ones. I don't think I learned anything useful from that course other than what upconvolutions are, which I doubt I'm going to use any time in the near future. I learned more about tensorflow and coding up neural nets from one large vision project than I did in the 12 weeks of assignments in Krahenbull's course. I was disappointed to say the least. 

With the class having no tests and being purely project based, the class just didn't provide enough challenging moments. The biggest incident that happened was when all of us were called in for our models being really similar, but since the networks were so similar there are very few reasonable possibilities for using them. 

The final project group was DB, CK, and I. It turned out to be an absolute shit-show since our TuxCart basically never managed to train properly given the data that we tried to collect. Still not really sure what we were doing so poorly, but oh well we didn't spend that long. It was more a bruise on self-esteem than anything, but I cared about the other projects more than I did about that class. I definitely had lost most motivation other than working on Vision at this point. 

## Cuisine and Culture
I took Asian Cuisine and Culture for a writing flag, though this turned out to be useless as I took Behavioral Ethics the next semester anyway. I was expecting to learn and have some interesting debates about the topics in the course, but it ended up just being a read a critical piece that was just extremely long, and then come and talk some rubbish about it in class without really bringing your own viewpoints or opposing the critical papers.  

I didn't like the way that there was such a focus on these critical pieces instead of actually discussing more interesting instances of food or production. It ended up just being analysing other people's opinions and reports instead of interpreting your own results from facts or incidents. 

Some of the more memorable instances were learning that Chicken Tikka Masala came from London instead of originating from India, MSG not necessarily being harmful for you, regional cuisine discussion and the geographical barriers that cause it, etc. The quizzes at the start of class were another instant turn off for me, and I eventually just started guessing and not properly doing them because all the questions were so esoteric. It really made it impossible to follow. I wish that I had pass failed this course as it really wasn't as interesting as I would've liked. 

My final project was on Dosa's that was fun to research, but an absolute pain to write. Most of the writing projects in the class ended up being really bad, yet again more confirmation that my writing style doesn't conform to notions of good style. I believe this problem stems from the fact that I don't like the concept of having a sentence that is able to summarize the entire essay. If that was possible, what the hell is the purpose of the remaining portion of the essay? This becomes especially relevant since in each of these you need specific citations for everything that makes it a pain to come up with a thesis idea and then find sources that match it. I ended up going down the other route where I'd get a collection of sources on a topic and then try to get a binding connection between them to construct a thesis because the other way around ended up being impossible too many times. I'd start off that way and then it'd just dissolve into not having sources, therefore not conforming to the specifications mentioned in the assignment write-up. 

Anyway, Dosa's.... I definitely learned more about it, but thinking on it now I think I have retained an absolute of 0 other than what the ingredients of the batter are. The vast majority of the content just stemmed from my ideas of what dosa's are and therefore I was highly biased due to my prior knowledge and Amma's inputs. We had an assignment on cookbooks and one more that was a book analysis I believe. Neither of these I did particularly well that ended up with me getting an A- in the class, that wasn't really surprising considering the level of effort that I put in. 

## History
American Studies that was technically in music. It started off fairly interesting with the points being about Music being a place of escape. Then, I stopped reading the articles before class that quickly dissolved into me not paying attention and caring less and less. Each of the writing portions that were present that required using 3 different articles and then some more evidence were really hard for me to construct as I highlighted above.

The discography assignment, similarly, was me just throwing a whole bunch of songs at the problem that had personal value to me but I just didn't know how to quantify them culturally especially for America. I really thought that assignment was complete bull since it just didn't make sense for international students to know what was culturally significant. How does one even classify that? By definition, it's completely subjective that makes it impossible to come at it objectively without context. 

I guess I learnt some things about analyzing music more from looking beyond the lyrics, but I believe a lot of the songs right now don't really do that. Most of them other than rap, just tend to reuse the same chorus, wait for the base-drop in more edm heavy music, and then go with the beat rather than having a particular message as such. It is more about being nice to listen to rather than inspiring people, which I believe was necessary back when social media wasn't available as a platform to unite common-thinking individuals. 

---
Fun Stuff:
Mozart's
Recording various actions in the gdc with db and prabhat that we never actually used haha. 
Various torchy's and late night adventures. Pretty meh overall atleast in terms of photos. 

## Winter Break
The senior year winter break was the only time that I think I didn't do any programming work outside of teaching Anirudh some basic data structures for python. The break kicked off with me staying in Austin for far longer than I expected to, but I got a chance to go around Austin for like the first time. I had hoped the extra few days of recovery in Austin would prepare me for the sheer amount of travelling that would come in the week after I landed in India, but my was I wrong about that. 

I think the second day after I arrived, we headed off to Chennai for Nandini's reception in Chennai. It was a really good time as I got a chance to meet a lot of the people from Melbourne, who were obviously all grown up. Back in Australia, I was only really close with Krishna, but got a chance to meet a lot of other people who were more acquaintances through various means.

I had the assumption that we were heading off to Kerala after that, but little did I know that Appa and Amma had concocted a little plan to go to Sri Lanka instead. Trolled me literally till the point we were in Colombo haha, which was insanity to me. Definitely, didn't expect Amma to be able to hold up her end of the surprise, but they definitely got me good, so props to them for it, even though I really didn't enjoy the surprise.

Sri Lanka was a really good trip full of incredible food, great sites to visit, and long drives through the beautiful countryside. Some of the takeaways were:
* Cleanliness: The country was incredibly clean. This was really surprising considering how similar the cultures of India and Sri Lanka are, yet India is significantly dirtier.
* Cost: Sri Lanka was far more expensive in some of the basics like water. Another portion of this was that due to demonetization, no place accepted Indian Rupees. We definitely didn't expect that to happen, but we managed to survive by converting dollars initially and then taking a hit on conversion with the Rupee.
* Food: While the food was similar to South Indian and Tamilian food, the reality is that due to the island separation there are a lot of subtle differences in the cuisine. For example, hoppers are basically unheard of in India, but they are a staple in Sri Lanka. 
* Accommodation: We booked a lot of the places through Airbnb, but quickly realized a big flaw with this approach. Though the places were cheaper and sustainable, the issue was that they weren't really at a convenient distance from anything. This increased the time it took for us to get to anywhere in the morning or whilst coming back at night. Since Airbnb just reveals a general area where the accommodation could be present, this really gives a false impression of where the actual location is. Multiple times we thought we had something closer to the center of the town or along the beach, only to have it be in the middle of nowhere and having to drive down. The good thing was that most of the places had breakfast included. 
    * One of the most unique places was the Garden of Eden Airbnb that we stayed near Yala National Park, where we had to get in another car and drove close to an hour to be right by the lakeside in a cottage completely amidst the farms. The jeep ride through the mud literally threw us out of our seats multiple times, but what an experience! The couple there were super nice and had made us an incredibly exquisite meal though they had to get all of the food from the village and it wasn't going to be included. I got to have some incredible yoghurt and got to learn a lot about completely self-sustainable living. I think it might be something to consider purely from the standpoint to disconnect and as a retreat. I don't think I could live off as much independence to technology and the internet for such a sustained period of time. Since there were fewer beds, I slept in the tent/house away from the main house and used the full mosquito net and completely burrito'd up.
* Beaches: Due to the respect and cleanliness the Sri Lankans have, the beaches tended to be really clean and foreigners and locals combined could enjoy. There wasn't any hooting or rowdiness, which really needs to be applauded relative to how terrible Indians tend to be about beaches. Galle's jungle beach was really an awesome hidden corner that we found in the shade. I think I had kickstarted reading some series or the other at this point. 
* Driving: Our driver(Amal) was quite possibly the slowest driver I've seen. I'm sometimes glad that he was safe, but he'd consistently take days to overtake even a rickshaw driver, whilst going 20 under the speed limit. It took repeated coaxing as well as pestering just to get him to drive at the speed limit. Added to this was his unfounded confidence in his navigational abilities even though he constantly took poor routes. When I started using Google Maps to give us better directions, he'd just brush them off and continue to pick his own routes. Since so much of our trip was spent on the road, this became a far bigger problem that it usually would have been. 

---
Before coming back to UT, we had to go to our bi-annual pilgrimage to Barbeque Nation to get that crispy corn and the veggie skewers that we all enjoy. 
I don't really remember much of what I did during the remaining portion other than watching Narcos and Royals. I definitely reread some series' but I do that all the time so that doesn't really count for much.

## Senior Year - Spring 2018

### Distributed
Distributed was a class where I was hoping to get a lot out of it, but it just didn't end up meeting expectations. Chidambaram initially seemed like a good lecturer, but the sheer amount of negative points that he built up against himself was really impressive in a negative way. The lectures started out as being interesting, but they quickly deteriorated into Chidambaram just using other people's slides and trying to explain a hodgepodge method of doing anything. The times when he used his slides it would be basically a complete list of API calls to their systems without a single diagram with all the text in the same font and style. I think the amount I learnt in these lectures was completely useless and even may have been detrimental. 

In terms of the assignments, the weekly questions turned out to be complete jokes that the TA just assigned without really trying to get us to understand the papers. I think he should have used Grauman's system of writing paper reviews. That would have increased his workload since he may have had to review those, but I think it was a trivial increase relative to the amount the students would gain. The project itself for the replicated key value store was a good project, but the lack of any starter code and automatic grading made the instructions far less clear as to what to do in certain cases. It was definitely a good test for us to come up with the test-cases and implement a project from scratch, but I think it might have been more useful to have more projects than the focus on just papers instead of projects. Working on the first project with Darshan and Prabhat definitely gave us far more stress than we should've taken considering we didn't have to pull an all-nighter to complete it. It was really funny working with them, especially with Prabhat's requirements that he had to read the entire codebase at a certain point instead of going through the pull requests. The strategy of using pull requests and having testing really helped us. Darshan definitely pulled the most weight, though I'm really glad we stuck to using RPC calls instead of using web sockets. It also worked really well that we used Python and Bayou for our project since DB was familiar with those due to his previous Distributed Class. It didn't make any sense for this project to use Golang since they weren't familiar with the language at all. It's pretty cool that all of the distributed work that all of my friends have done has been in different programming languages now that I think about it. The same definitely can't be said about the deep learning work since a vast majority is in Python.

The tests were definitely one of the main pain points in the class. The first midterm was going to be all design questions, but since he didn't even provide a single sample question or even try to get us ready to answer the questions, we all really struggled on the test. It was clear that no matter how many hours I put into studying for the test it didn't give me any value out of it. This was with having 4 tests in 2 days, which really wasn't any fun. The questions themselves were definitely good questions if the appropriate teaching and training had been provided, which clearly wasn't. Most of us really struggled with the test, other than Darshan naturally. For the next test, the complete opposite happened where he told us it'd be a test really similar to the one we had on the midterm, only to give us a test that was completely study-able for. This lack of communication and inability to set expectations was what really harmed Chidambaram as a teacher. It was also not really great that we had to give the end of term survey before the test so we never got to show the feedback from that in the official survey.

Continuing on the lack of communication, during our final projects for the presentation he popped out what the rubric was going to be just before we started the presentation. If he had such a clear idea of what to grade us on, why not reveal that to us during the class? Some of the points like visuals were completely arbitrarily graded since we did have multiple visuals and certainly far more than he ever had on his slides. In fairness, our project wasn't the most practical due to it's basis in theory and inability to provide real world use cases. Developing the project was something I'm actually pretty proud of since I wrote most of the core components of the project in 2 days that was pretty quick relative to some of my previous projects. I managed to escape writing the dreaded report since I contributed to the entirety of the coding portion of the project. They did end up pulling all-nighters to finish the report, and on the last day I got really badly sick so I didn't contribute at all on that side. 

To top everything, Chidambaram decided to keep the amount required to get an A at 94, which is obscenely high for a CS grad class. This also ruined my all A streak in CS classes :( (Darshan hates me for this haha). 

### TA'ing Computer Vision
TA'ing for Vision was something that I never imagined getting asked to do by Grauman. I definitely was considering asking her if I could take over from Paul at some point, but when she asked my during Fall Semester I definitely grabbed at the opportunity though I was initially worried about the workload increase that it would bring. Luckily, I wasn't taking many difficult courses and thus had the capacity to add it in my schedule. In fact, this was a really good selling point for teams in Bootcamp as well since they didn't expect an undergrad to be TA'ing a vision class especially at a University like UT.

I definitely enjoyed the new challenges imposed by TA'ing as it really helped shore up my understanding in a lot of the concepts in vision. Even the first assignment completely baffled me on a certain problem, where I had 0 clue on how to solve a certain problem and had to get help from Darshan and others just so I didn't have to ask Grauman on how to do it. It was definitely a lot to keep up with the constant barrage from Piazza, since the other TA's would basically never contribute on there. The week of the segmentation assignment gave me the most trouble as so many students started asking the specific implementation details that clearly only I amongst the TA's knew, as they hadn't actually coded up the assignment. My hypothesis is that many of the students got such detailed answers from me, that they were able to get the step by step instructions on how to code up most of the assignments just from Piazza. I wish there was a better way to stop the flow of knowledge to just the limited amount necessary, but some of the times it was really frustrating to see the students' inability to read the assignment. Particularly, I found that many of the students wouldn't read the assignment multiple times. Grauman's assignments tended to be harder to interpret at times and thus it became critical to go over the assignment guidelines multiple times to get a clearer idea of what to do in each of the parts. 

Grading the assignments was initially really daunting as Thomas told me it took him a really long period of time for even the most basic assignment, and I was grading two of the harder ones. The first grading portion came during one of my harder weeks, but I managed to get it out by staying up late into the night and cranking them out. I particularly ensured that I had a fair grading rubric by keeping all point deductions in a Google Doc so that I had the right reasons for deducting points. However, there definitely is and was a significant level of subjectivity that occurs with grading as most of the answers were completely up to the TA's interpretation and not really objective. It's hard to come up with reasonable explanations for trends and patterns instead of getting stuck in a post-viewing hole where one is really biased towards the results.

However time consuming the assignments were, they were definitely far easier to grade than the tests. Luckily, Grauman did give us a rubric to grade the tests on, but on the first test I got to grade this Hough Transform question that had a huge amount of subjectivity on what was right and wrong that made it really challenging to grade. I spent a lot of time just figuring out the solution before even attempting to grade. It didn't help one bit that I had just come out of 3 exams that day. It took us till beyond midnight to finish grading the test. Similarly, for the final test I had a really bad nose attack and that just ruined the process for me. We did manage to finish grading the final test in slightly over the time we took for the midterm which was surprising initially, but made sense given the number of true false questions that were there that we could blow through and grade quickly. That definitely sucked for the folks taking the test since there's no partial credit, but worked out in my favor a lot. 

### Human Sexuality
I didn't really know what I was getting myself into with this course, but I learnt a couple of useful life lessons. I think the first major one, was the (ironically) the fact that many people tend to present opinions as facts instead of presenting them as values/beliefs. This is something that I really did a lot especially in arguments or discussions where I'd just try to impose my opinion about something, when it definitely wasn't a fact. These were sentences like "It **is** bad... ". Other than all the obvious anatomy knowledge, I thought that there was some useful knowledge about growing up in a family / raising kids. 

The quizzes were really a piece of cake in the class and I honestly just used it as nap / reddit time. I generally was able to just get away with being on my phone, since I sat at the back, even though there was a no phone policy. The professor definitely made the class quite interesting, but still not enough to keep a college senior up at 11 am. 


### Young Adult Fiction and Film 
I was initially going to take one of Young Adult Fiction and Film or Manga, Comics and Graphic Novels. After attending the first lesson of the Comics course, I realized that it was far more heavily pointed towards the theory and history of graphic novels rather than trying to read current novels. The main motivation behind these was to get a better critical understanding when I read for pleasure instead of using my own heuristics of what I like after so many years of reading. 

In the Ficion and Film class, the course was comprised of multiple reading selections that were selected from books that had some adaptation in another medium already present or in the works. This included books like Harry Potter and the Hunger Games from the more popular instances, to the more unknown for me like Dumplin' and Shadowshaper. The books all came from the category of YA and the main theme around all of them was of diversity. 

The course really taught me some really interesting things about the books that I like as well as some more widespread things in my life that affected the way I grew up. I learned about the term called 'parentalization', where the children act as the parents to the adults to the point of caring and sustaining them. Definitely a common theme in many of the post-apocalyptic or coming of age stories where parent figures are generally not present and thus the protagonists take on far more mature and serious roles. Another scary instance that I learned about myself was the fact that most, if not all, of the memorable books of my childhood were mainly about white and male protagonists who were in turn written in general by white male adults. This held true for many of my favorite tv-shows and serials as well. This sort of long term subtlety that just continues on in so many people's lives without them even realizing was really scary to me. In fact, recently I've realized I've read more books with female protagonists and more diverse racial composition in terms of books, but that may also be a selection bias since we are in an age where it is not okay to whitewash the entire cast or character set. 

We spent a good while of the class focused on the quintessential YA book in Harry Potter, where much to my dismay I learnt how masculine and derogatory the books are to the female characters. It was particularly surprising that I found that Hermione teaches literally every spell Harry knows to him, yet is always somehow the 'weaker' witch when it came to clutch situations. Yes, she got the limelight academically but no one really gave her much of the limelight when it came to the more dangerous situations Harry had to deal with. Similarly, it was really surprising to find that out of the major institutions in Hogwarts, Death Eaters, and the Ministry, all of them had male leaders with female underlings like McGonagall, Umbridge, and Bellatrix. We had a little skit that we did on this dynamic in the class, that was quite some fun to prepare, though I had the flu during this point.

I did get some book suggestions through the course about certain books to read like the Six of Crows, but definitely far lesser than I expected going in. I think I still have the list of books lying around somewhere here. In terms of the other content in the class, Moxie really impressed me in the knowledge it gave me about the Riot Grrl movement and sexual harassment that happens in rural towns and actually effective ways of community to combat such bs. 

The most important lesson by far from the course was the fact that diverse groups simply don't have the same level of representation in media as they do in terms of population. Some of the statistics given and examples that I could think of just in my life really highlighted how bad it is to grow up without any representation of your own culture in mainstream books that are constantly fed to the entire world's youth. This cycle feeds into the stereotypes and misinformation that many people tend to have whether it's sexual orientation, weight, race, and even economic diversity. I was pretty troubled to find that most of my childhood books, shows, and content in general was predominated by while, male written work or characters. That's a pretty scary thought considering the sheer amount of books that I've read and the amount of influence they've had on my thought process and thinking as a human being. It's the sort of slow thoughtful destruction of culture and people straight out of an apocalyptic novel. Post that, I started reading more female protagonist books like the Kate Daniels series, powder mage (up to an extent), and Naomi Novik's various books. I don't think it's possible to completely change my interests in the coming of age stories and fantasy novels that I tend to consume so rapidly, but the hope is to introduce some more diversity to ensure that I'm not brainwashed by a certain type or group of authors. I'm really glad I learnt about how bad some of these numbers are since I never would have thought to think about how many Indian protagonist series' I've read. It's also interesting since this ties in with the fact that immigrant and Asian communities are far less willing to allow or support their kids to go into more creative domains like writing relative to the standard American household, where it's encouraged to have a wide liberal arts background. 

---
Managed to go see Pierce Brown for the Iron Gold signing event, though I didn't enjoy the book as much as the original series.
Colorado Skiing Trip :O. This was honestly one of the best trips, but should probably be in a separate post. 9 people to a bathroom and a half was actually easier than expected.
sg stuff
Went to 6th street for the first time :O, though this was right before I got the flu so that wasn't fun. 
Got the flu, and was basically out of commission for a week.
Austin Graffiti Wall
Did the OPT visa application running around. Ended up also dropping a lot of money for the immediate cab to Houston after my Greyhound broke down and I needed to get to the Australian Consulate for my appointment.
Facebook's dinner for all the new hires / interns.
Romano's
LBJ side site seeing
Shoal Creek Library

---
## Moving out of Austin
I'm keeping this before graduation, even though it did technically happen after graduation. Moving out was made so much easier thanks to FB's relocation package. Getting movers to help with all the big bulky stuff was a lifesaver considering how light I'd have to pack to travel to Europe and then back to India. In fact, they reduced my load so much that it was harder just cleaning up the apartment and disposing the furniture than it was dealing with the actual moving out.


--- 
# Graduation
Honestly, everyone hyped up graduation so much, but for me it was just a conclusion. As Brandon Sanderson states, "Journey Before Destination, Life Before Death". Going through UT was definitely the best impulse decision I've ever made, and quite possibly best decision period, but it just feels so cheap and unimportant to reduce 4 years to a single moment. I mean, it's like cramming for a test or pulling an all-nighter in the basement of the GDC. It suffices, but it's definitely not perfect. It was, however, really fun to get one last final set of photos with everybody on campus with Appa and Amma around as well for graduation. Sitting next to the WEDONEBOIS squad during the whole event, was also pretty special considering how much we've been through in the last 4 years. 

--- 

One Last Semester, One Long Road, One Long Blog. This has definitely been an incredibly long comprehensive dump of my thoughts during college and amidst the chaos of it. I didn't really know what to expect when starting this except the fact that I didn't want to forget my time spent there. As writing this has gone on, my motivation for doing it definitely fell and rose sporadically, but the fact that I've nearly finished it I think is quite impressive if I may so myself. 

Being a couple months into full time now, it's really amazing the times I had at UT. I really wished I could relive the highs and maybe even the lows all over again, but it has definitely time to move to the next big adventure and carry along the amazing history that I built during 4 years mainly at the GDC, my true home at Austin.


