---
title: Whistler Ski Trip 2020
layout: post
hide: true
permalink: whistler2020
---


# Preparation
* bought patagonia jacket
* gloves, but Rohit definitely found warmer leather gloves
* bought helmet, but eventually ordered another one due to bad fit.
* I nearly forgot about applying for an ESTA

I packed the day before an completely stuffed my bag full of things to the point where it was really bulging and even closing the zip became hard. Rainier left like 10 minutes before me, and then my Lyft got messed up and took longer than I'd have liked for it. I basically got o the gate right when boarding was starting, since the United basic economy added a new rule that forces to check in baggage even when there's still a lot of space on the flight. 

The flight itself was fine as far as I remember. I finished up the First Law series, which overall wasn't great, but I really want to read his most recent works to see how they are, since it's more modern and with guns. At the airport, we were waiting for Rohit to get the car with Rainier and Darshan. We were stuck there for a really long time, before finally heading out after meeting Rohit at the rental car place by taking a shuttle. Our car, an Audi R6, was actually really fancy in comparison to what we usually get for these trips.

Even without Shallom, our car's luggage situation was looking dicey, but somehow got through the whole trip. We picked up Shallom at University Village after some communication errors where his address wasn't lining up where we would be. In the meantime, the other car with Josh, Eric, Lily and Sumanth was still quite a bit behind us, which didn't make a lot of sense since they were north of us when we were leaving. 

As usual, we played Rover 2.0 and asked deep questions in the car where I got roasted a bit for wanting to take 1 million dollars a year if a snail would move closer to me by an inch every hour. We stopped along the way at a Taco Bell and a Popeye's for the meat lover's, before continuing straight on to Whistler. 

We ended up taking the non-peace Arch border crossing as the Peace Arch was supposed to be super busy, but the other car continued along I-5 and somehow overtook us. Rohit, being the speed demon that he is, decided that this would not hold and somehow over took them on Sea to Ski, which is basically a one way road except for very few sections. The roads were definitely a bit scary to sit in the car, particularly when you have no control over the situation, but ironically still more comfortable than sitting when Naren's driving.

Our Airbnb's were in the same complex that we'd stayed in last year, which was super convenient. We were 'supposed' to stay randomly apparently, but this turned out to be a complete lie when the other car came and rejected that idea. Rainier basically told everyone immediately on arrival that he was staying in the other airbnb which was a bit BM, but he took the initiative so props to him. Our own airbnb had serious issues where the loft could really only accomodate Rohit or Darshan. Shallom also revealed that he snores, which was a no-go for Darshan and I. I managed to finesse that into getting the bedroom with Darshan. The truly worst issue was the heat. We literally turned all the thermostats off and the heat was still on, which made a) made no sense, and b) made the Airbnb unbearable. Darshan and I opened our window in one room to deal with the heat, but apparently it had gotten ridiculously cold in the morning hours and he'd gone and closed it. Rohit and Shallom had a horrible night in the heat as well, and when I woke up in the morning they'd hilariously kept the front door open to stave off the heat. 

All of us had an atrocious night of sleep since we'd really only slept at 1:30 and woke up at 6:30 in my case. The first day of skiing is always the worst since everyone takes time to get ready, we need to go and rent gear, and then head to the slope, which eats up a lot of slope time. Luckily, the rental place in Whistler is right next to the best bagel and coffee shop Tim Hortons. Cheap breakfast while waiting for folks to get ready is a luxury that I wish ski resorts in the US had. The boots of coastal culture really fit me well, and far far better than what I'd wore in Tahoe. I packed some bagels to go for lunch and then we headed to the Creekside gondola at around 10:00am after getting ready at the Airbnb. 

We started off doing a few greens with Expressway, where nearly the full group took a tumble. I was really feeling myself on that first day where everything was just coming together. I've found the first few runs just end up being boot adjustment runs. Rohit, Josh, and I ended up peeling away from the rest of the group, who were going at a far slower pace. That first day Josh really wasn't hitting his tride and I was weirdly giving him tips. Considering that he was with me when I basically started skiing that was a pretty strange feeling. 

The trails we did were Marmot, Sidewinder, and we took the Emerald 6 express up. We tried taking Cougar down as Whistler had pretty atrocious visibility, which caused the closure of the upper lifts. There were more Blues in Blackhomb so we headed that way. I think we ended up taking Ptarmigan down to Whistler Base village. We took Excalibur and Excellerator up to Jersey Cream, before coming down on Cruiser. I then faced my demon, Springboard, and completely destroyed the slope. I felt super comfortabel and as if nothing could stop me. I really wanted to do a Black, but I think the others were just exhausted by this point. Josh and Rohit kept falling into the trap of slowing down for control, something which I did last year after my fall. That really sucks the energy out of your legs and makes it impossible to move.  Particularly, my form would deteriorate and my back would start hurting, which prevents you from going far and long without stopping. 

I'd have liked to do crystal chiar express that first day, but it was closed due to visibility. We ended up just heading all the way down and catching the Whistler gondola up, so that we could go down the whole of Franz. I saw how Naren and I managed to enter the freeform unmarked black near Little Red Run. By god, that still looked scary as hell, even after a year of improvement. While Franz was long, there actually weren't any moguls, which made going down pretty trivial. Till this point my stamina really surprised me, but Franz put me really close to the limit. That day 1 of skiing was the first time I think I haven't been completely bone dead tiered after a full day of skiing.

After everyone got ready at the Airbnb's (getting out of gear is a godsend), we headed to get dinner at Creekbread, a pizza place in Creekside Village. They had a veggie special, that was honestly really good that I shared with Sumanth. I gobbled up my entire half of the pizza before he'd even finished a quarter, which was pretty hilarious as he thought I'd finished more than my share. While heading to Dusty's, a bar, Lily tried crossing a deep snow patch when there was a completely normal route available, and hilariously got stuck. Watching Eric barely help her just added to the comedy. Dusty's was decent, but I thinkall of us were just really tired after not having a good nights rest and then skiing the whole day. We also picked up some food at the mart before heading to bed.

---

Luckily, the previous night's temperature shenanigans didn't last and we managed to have a nice night of sleep. Apparently, I sleep talked some garbage, which I find pretty funny as I've never heard of doing it before (that's a lie now clearly).

Rohit and I got Tim Horton's after we woke up and got ready by the car. Everyone took their sweet time to come and get ready and I was just itching to go after yesterday's delays. Josh luckily came through ith me, and we started off doing some greens. I think he was very particular about only using the singles line if actually a single, which I had no qualms over. However, unlike Tahoe it seems like it made no difference in queue times. 

We did a few runs o fSymphony chair and Harmony Ridge trying to do a Black.The one that we ended up doing ended up pretty poorly for me as I just went into so much powder. My skis came off and I took an absolute decade trying to put them back on. One of my feet was in a few feet of snow and it was just impossible to get any firmness in the powdery snow. However, it was still pretty worth it to go down all those times. As we were trying to go down one last time, we went down G.S, which at the time I didn't realize meant Grand Slalem. Those are supposed to be icy slopes that are hard to navigate and are meant to go down at speed. The slope itself was fairly icy and tough to go down as I ended up falling a few times going down it. By this point, my highs of the previous day had all but disappeared and I was just frustrated with my inability to keep my flow going. 

We headed down to Olympic mid station and were going to have lunch there when we unexpectedly met up with everyone else. We all did one run down the mountain down to Whislter Base village, before heading up Blackhomb mountain. Josh and I had our lunch on the gondola going up. I was trying to get us to Crystal Chair to do some of the slopes there that we'd never done previously.
We were only able to go up one run of Crystal Chair, before having to go all the way back to Creekside. That run was super fun however, and I really wish we'd targeted doing it earlier rather than so late in the day. Whilst continuing down Short Horn to the base of Whistler to take the right gondola's, Josh and Shallom ended up taking the wrong turn and were at Blackhomb base instead of Whistler base. Rohit, Josh, and I just waited for them to make the long haul up, before we collectively headed down Little Red Run and the Franz's.

When we reached the Airbnb's and changed and showered, we realized Rainier had made some incredible velvet cakes and Fogo de Cao, that was a lifesaver to have. We were watching Eric's tik tok videos for a while before finally all of us were ready to go for dinner. A few of us went to Samurai Bowl, an Asian restaurant in Creekside that we'd been to last year. The food was pretty good, but Rohit really wasn't felling well and thought he'd had a concussion. A few of the folks ended up going to Dusty's directly instead of getting real food, and we joined up with the rest of them at Dusty's before calling it a night.
---

I had to wake up early with the others to get my stuff packed an din the car whilst getting breakfast and making sure the others got ready. We had planned to leave for the slopes at 8, but ended up being delayed by half an hour by Josh and Sumanth. We took Big red up, and waited for Eric at the top of Whistler, but the visibility and wind was honestly atrocious. Most of the lifts were not even running, which really hampered which routes we could take. We decided to head towards Blachomb, but even there the visibility was bad. In addition, the lines on the day were the longest we'd seen in the days we were there for. 

Luckily, glacier express had opened up, which was a lift that we hadn't gone on yet. It was a really long lift that took us far above the tree line and was pretty terrifying to go up. On the way, we saw this one part where people would pick up there skis and hike to go to a double black diamond. Meanwhile, we were shitting ourselves on which route to take at the top of glacier express. There was realistically only one blue we could take to come down, so we ended up taking that, though I thought I had seen a Black that looked fairly doable. Josh ended up going down this black and separated from us. Eric decided to relax for a bit, while we took the glacier express up once more, and this time I had enough courage to go down my first Whistler black successfully. It really wasn't hard, but seeing the other blacks, I knew the variance on the black diamond rating was absurd at Whistler.

We headed down to Crystal glide, where we did 1 run of twist and shout while Josh attempted Arthur's Choice, a black with a bunch of trees along the way. I was fairly comfortable with the amount of moguls by now, and didn't get messed up with them at all. It honestly would have been nice to go on some hard mogul runs, but we didn't end up hitting any of them all weekend. By this point, it was fairly close to our 2 pm time of departure from Creekside back to the US. We ended up being a bit late for arriving since we probably did one slop too many, but overall it was pretty good to do the glacier express and crystal chair runs. The only one left is now peak express on Whistler mountain, which I'm sure we'll do the next time we go.

The last run down the Franz's was absolutely exhausting. I think my legs were literally quivering by the time I'd finished. My form was killing me, and my back pains ended up haunting me every turn. My fear of falling was back at full swing from the black the previous day, which also made me a prisoner of speed. By the time I got my ski's off me at the bottom of Creekside I was honestly questioning where all my energy went. It was super hard walking from the ski lift to Coastal Culture to return our gear. 

Once we got to Coastal Culture we quickly returned our gear. But it took a while to eventually leave Whilster since people had to change and buy food at Tim Hortons before departing from the village. Getting all the luggage sorted out was fairly annoying as there were multiple times of taking out clothes and putting them back in. Shallom's massive suitcase did us no favors as well. I was fairly worried we'd both be stinking in the back of the car but it was actually alright. Honestly, there were more issues sitting in the middle seat than there were with the smell and lack of space. By the time we were two hours in our journy, my back was absolutely killing me. 

I remember two things that irritated me on the way back. The first was Josh asking if I could stay with CK even though I'd really tried to secure housing early. Initially, I got told there was no space at Eric's only to hear later that there was space for Darshan, which was like wtf. Luckily Eric did actually have space for all of us, which was a lifesaver for me to get some rest. I really didn't want to go all the way to Bellevue, since a) it's expensive, b) out of the way, and c) I asked first. I was definitely annoyed with Josh that he hadn't figured out his housing situation earlier since I'd also asked him about it during the trip and he kinda didn't answer it. 

The second one was food. Some of teh folks made a big hue and cry about getting to Seattle early, but then they wanted to make 20 min detours from the original route just to get Boba. There was some back and forth about this before our car acquiesced and we joined up with them at some Korean restaurant. There was a wait to get a table. I made a got tier move by asking Sumanth and Darshan, the two other veggie bois waiting, if they wanted to get some Indian food at the restaurant that I'd seen. Turns out there was no wait at that restaurant, so we ended up just going there and having a solid full Indian meal, that I didn't realize I really needed. 

Post dinner, we headed to this supposedly amazing Boba place where only two people in our car got it. We were just waiting in some jank location as there didn't seem to be parking, and I didn't even see the store. After Boba, we were finally on our way to the Border. I knew I was fine in terms of documentation, but the shitty feeling of what if they don't allow me to come back in still keeps coming up sadly. Turns out nothing to worry about, as border control was completely fine, though Rainier didn't like the officer as much as the Canadian officer. 

We ended up reaching Eric's place at 10:20 pm. It was a really nice apartment, but my main concern at that point was getting sleep. It took a while to get to bed as we needed some mattresses and sheets. I basically wore headphones and an eye mask as the others were still bustling around talking. I woke up at 4:45 am and headed to the airport a mere 10 minutes later. I will say one part of my hellish commute is the ability to get out of bed extremely quickly and just rush off somewhere. 

The flight was completely fine, but work was definitely hard to focus on. It didn't help that I was traveling the next weekend to see Saloni and thus had to do some actual work. I remember coming back that night trying to walk from the shuttle stop to my apartment whilst on the phone with Appa and Amma, and I was absolutely miserable. It was a pretty heavy bag and lugging it up the slope was a huge L on my side.

Overall, Whistler 2.0 was super fun, but I definitely don't think it's worth to go again in the recent future. I'd like to spend the time getting significantly better in other places and terrains before going back. But, go back I definitely will. 
